Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
CHARACTERIZING WEB SEARCH IN THE AGE OF GENERATIVE AI
Anonymous authors
Paper under double-blind review
ABSTRACT
The advent of LLM agents has given rise to a new form of web search: generative search, where search agents retrieve information from the web and synthesize it into a single, coherent response. This paradigm differs fundamentally
from traditional web search, where results are returned as a ranked list of independent web pages. In this paper, we ask: Along what dimensions do generative
search agents differ from traditional search? We conduct a systematic comparison between Google organic search and four generative search systems from two
providers (Google and OpenAI). Our analysis reveals substantial variation among
engines in their reliance on internal v.s. external knowledge, source diversity, and
stability. While generative systems often achieve topical coverage comparable
to traditional search, they do so using markedly different retrieval footprints and
synthesis strategies. We further show that the outputs of generative search can
vary across time and executions, raising new challenges for reproducibility and
evaluation. Our findings demonstrate that generative search introduces new dimensions that are not captured by existing evaluation paradigms, motivating the
development of evaluations that explicitly account for retrieval behavior, synthesis, and stability in generative search systems. Our results also highlight the need
for revisiting evaluation criteria for web search in the age of Generative AI agents.
INTRODUCTION
Search has been a mainstay of online information retrieval for three decades. In response to a user
query, traditional search engines return a ranked list of roughly 10 web pages, ordered primarily
by relevance and source authority (Page et al., 1999), but also influenced by factors like diversity,
recency, and personalization (Qin et al., 2012).
The advent of LLMs has given rise to a new type of web search, generative AI-based search (Liu
et al., 2024; Nakano et al., 2021). Under this new search paradigm, users receive answers in natural
language rather than a ranked list of results. In fact, traditional search engines, including Google,
now integrate generative search results in their outputs. These systems typically operate by performing a web search, retrieving relevant pages, and producing a coherent, self-contained response. See
Figure 1 for an example.
While generative and traditional web search differ in many aspects, three fundamental dimensions
stand out: (i) Reliance on external v.s. internal knowledge: Traditional web search operates by
ranking external documents, i.e., web pages. In contrast, generative search may rely solely on the
underlying LLM’s internal knowledge, on external sources, or on a combination of both (McMahon
& Kleinman, 2025; Nakano et al., 2021). (ii) Much wider coverage: Traditional search engines
typically present links and snippets from the top-10 web pages. Users, limited by their information
processing capacity, would need to manually navigate in order to view the lower-ranked results.
Users rarely inspect results beyond the top-10, and often not beyond the top-3 (Bar-Ilan et al., 2009;
Nowicki, 2003; sea, 2025). Generative search, by contrast, can potentially aggregate information
from tens of sources into a single response. (iii) Synthesis of information using LLMs: Traditional
search presents retrieved content verbatim as independent snippets (Figure 1b). In contrast, generative search synthesizes retrieved content into novel text. Because the underlying LLMs performing
this synthesis are stochastic, issuing the same query multiple times can yield different outputs.

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
(a) AI Overview
(b) Organic search
(c) GPT-4o with search tool
Figure 1: Outputs of different search engines when querying for “why is python so popular in
machine learning”. Figures 1a and 1b show the Google search output. At the top of the results
page is a so-called “AI Overview”. Below the AI Overview are the traditional web search results
consisting of (often) top-10 web pages. The response of GPT-4o with web search used as a tool is
also accompanied by the supporting links (Figure 1c).
The impact of these fundamental differences on search outputs remains largely unexplored. Most
existing work on evaluating generative search focuses on properties such as factual accuracy, hallucinations, and bias (§2), but does not explore, for instance, if generative search actually leverages
its ability to go beyond top-10 web pages or if the stochasticity of the underlying LLM leads to
materially different outputs across multiple runs. To address this gap, we construct an evaluation
framework that operationalizes these three key dimensions and uses them to systematically characterize the behavior of generative search systems.
We use our framework to compare a traditional search engine, Google organic search (Organic),
with four generative search engines: Google AI Overview (AIO), Gemini (Gemini), GPT-4oSearch (GPT-Search), and GPT-4o with search as a tool (GPT-Tool), across a wide range of
datasets covering domains like politics, shopping, and science. Our evaluation reveals several intriguing patterns.
Generative engines differ widely in how much they rely on internal v.s. external knowledge.
For the same queries, GPT-Tool consults fewer than a single web page on average, while AIO,
Gemini, and GPT-Search retrieve 9, 9, and 4. Despite these differences in retrieval footprint,
generative engines often achieve similar levels of topical coverage. We also find that many generative engines perform web searches for retrieving simple, static facts that could be answered from internal knowledge alone (e.g., What is the capital of France?), lowering efficiency. However, engines
that perform fewer searches sometimes produce inaccurate information on, dynamic, time-sensitive
queries (e.g., seahawks vs steelers). This dichotomy reveals inherent tradeoffs between efficiency
and accuracy.
Generative engines also differ in the breadth of sources they surface. They frequently cite sources
far beyond the top-10 or even top-100 organic search results. For instance, on average 53%
(27%) of domains that AIO consults are not contained in top-10 (top-100) Organic search results.
Similarly, while 38% (89%) of the Organic result domains are contained within top-1K (top-1M)
most visited websites, the same numbers are 34% (85%) for AIO and 35% (81%) for GPT-Tool.
Because generative engines rely on stochastic LLMs and complex retrieval pipelines, their outputs
are unstable across executions. For instance, when performing the same queries two months apart,
only 18% of web pages were common between the two runs of AIO, whereas the overlap was
45% for Organic search. Even over relatively short intervals of 5 minutes (24 hours), responses
to questions requiring ternary answers (yes, no, neither) changed in up to 20% (22%) of cases.
Such instability raises concerns about reproducibility, trust, and user expectations, particularly when
answers are presented as authoritative summaries.
Overall, our framework and findings show that generative search introduces new trade-offs in sourcing behavior, efficiency, and stability that are not captured by existing search evaluation paradigms.

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
These results motivate the development of tailor-made evaluation methods that explicitly account
for fundamental differences between the mechanics of traditional and generative search.
RELATED WORK
Evaluation of traditional web search has long focused on issues like relevance, diversity, freshness, and coverage. Relevance metrics such as Precision, Recall, and nDCG measure how well
returned documents satisfy the user’s information need and reward systems that rank relevant results highly. Evaluation frameworks also measure diversity to ensure coverage of multiple intents,
subtopics, or viewpoints for ambiguous queries (e.g., subtopic recall, α-nDCG). Freshness captures
the timeliness of results, particularly for event-driven queries, and coverage measures the breadth of
retrieved content (Lewandowski, 2012). These criteria are effective for ranked lists of documents,
but do not directly apply to the synthesized, single-response outputs of generative engines.
Large Language Models (LLMs) are commonly assessed on question answering, summarization,
factual grounding, and tool use (Liang et al., 2023; Huang et al., 2024b;a). Summarization metrics
capture coverage, coherence, and factual accuracy using measures such as ROUGE and BERTScore.
In information-seeking contexts, retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) enhances LLMs with external knowledge to improve factuality by incorporating external knowledge (He et al., 2024; Shi et al.,
2025; Jo et al., 2025). Recent work has also applied LLMs to query understanding, ranking (Sun
et al., 2024), and query refinement (Siro et al., 2024; Bacciu et al., 2024). In this work, we focus on
a specific use case of LLMs as information sources in deployed, user-facing web search systems.
Prior work on diversity in search has examined multiple dimensions of bias, including political,
geographical, and commercial bias (Jiang, 2014). Evaluations typically focus on the diversity of
cited sources in the result set (Kingrani et al., 2015; Jiang, 2014; Urman et al., 2021), as well as
ideological skew (Lin et al., 2023), and commercial bias (Jiang, 2014). Recent work has applied
ranking fairness metrics to quantify viewpoint diversity in search results (Draws et al., 2021) and
measures coverage over predefined sets of perspectives (Chen & Choi, 2025; Skoutas et al., 2010;
Draws et al., 2021). In this work, we measure diversity at both the source and content levels, and
examine how retrieval and synthesis jointly shape the information presented to users.
Generative search retrieves and synthesizes information into new text rather than returning a ranked
list (Shi et al., 2025; Nakano et al., 2021). Recent work evaluates generative search along dimensions
such as verifiability, credibility, accuracy, and bias (Liu et al., 2023; Hu et al., 2024; Dai et al., 2024;
Li & Sinnamon, 2024). Other studies examine user interaction, trust, and feedback mechanisms in
generative search interfaces (Aliannejadi et al., 2024; Dai et al., 2025; Sharma et al., 2024; Mayerhofer et al., 2025). Recent work proposes new benchmarks, user models, and evaluation principles
tailored to generative search (Narayanan Venkit et al., 2025; Gienapp et al., 2024; Ai et al., 2023;
Alaofi et al., 2025; Miroyan et al., 2025) and analyzes when a search should be invoked (Schick
et al., 2023; Li et al., 2025; Sha et al., 2025). To the best of our knowledge, our work is the first
to systematically characterize the sources that generative search engines retrieve and to study how
differences in retrieval behavior affect the knowledge breadth, efficiency, and stability of generated
content.
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
This section outlines the datasets and engines used.
3.1
DATASETS
Our datasets are designed to (i) reflect real user queries, (ii) cover both everyday and domain-specific
workloads (e.g., politics, science, products), and (iii) include both persistent and time-sensitive topics.
Existing datasets.
We use two existing datasets. (i) MS Marco: 1,000 real-world Bing queries for
open-domain retrieval and QA. (ii) WildChat: 1,740 information-seeking queries subsampled from
user interactions with ChatGPT.

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
AllSides
Mean
Median
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
Reg. Actions
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
Products
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
Science
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
MS Marco
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
WildChat
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
Trends
# Links per query
Figure 2: Different search engines rely on external knowledge to varying degrees. GPT-Tool cites
much fewer web pages than other engines, followed by GPT-Search. AIO tends to cite the most
web pages.
Newly curated datasets.
To ensure a diversity of workloads and probe specific performance axes
like newly-created knowledge, we curate following new datasets. (i) AllSides: 332 politically focused queries derived from socio-political topics. (ii) Regulatory Actions: 649 queries about recent
executive orders in the US. (iii) Science: 453 queries on AI-related scientific topics derived from
the ACM CCS taxonomy. (iv) Products: 422 product-related queries based on popular Amazon
searches. (v) Trends: 100 trending queries collected from Google Trends on 2025-09-15.
All the datasets combined consist of 4,706 queries. Details on dataset construction as well as example queries are described in Appendix A.
3.2
SEARCH ENGINES
We compare one traditional and four generative search systems, selected to cover both dedicated
search engines and general-purpose LLMs with search capabilities. (i) Organic Google Search
(Organic) retrieves ranked lists of web pages. By default, the first page shows top-10 search
results. In order to compare the overlap between generative search and Google search at various
ranks, we retrieved top-100 search results. (ii) Google AI Overviews (AIO) generate synthesized
answers together with cited sources. (iii) Gemini-2.5-Flash with Google Search (Gemini) generates
responses with an optional web search. (iv) GPT-4o Search (GPT-Search) always performs a web
search before returning an answer. (iv) GPT-4o with Search Tool (GPT-Tool) decides per query
whether to retrieve external information.
Experimental Details. All queries were issued in English in September 2025. For generative
engines, we set temperature to 0 and maximum new tokens to 1, 000. Additional implementation
details are in Appendix B. To study the effect of location, we performed queries from two locations:
United States (US) and Germany (DE). We observe only minor differences. Unless mentioned
otherwise, the main paper reports results for US. We discuss the results for the DE location in
Appendix F.
We will open-source all newly curated datasets as well as the code to reproduce all experiments with
the final version of the paper.
INTERNAL v.s. EXTERNAL KNOWLEDGE
We now characterize how different search engines balance internal knowledge and external information from the web, and how this balance affects the quality of the outputs.
4.1
DIFFERENCES IN NUMBER OF SOURCES
Figure 2 shows the number of links per query for different datasets and search engines. The figure
shows vast differences in reliance on external knowledge. For instance, the median number of
links averaged over all datasets for GPT-Tool is 0 as compared to 9 for AIO. GPT-Search
retrieves the second-lowest number of links. The median number of links averaged over all the
datasets is 4.
The reliance on external links is query-specific. While the median number of links for AIO is similar
to the median number of links for Organic (9 vs. 10), they differ sharply at the extremes. At the

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
10th percentile, AIO retrieves fewer links (0.6 v.s. 10), while at the 90th percentile, it retrieves far
more (17 v.s. 10). In other words, Organic search is effectively fixed at 10 results, whereas AIO
adaptively decides how many web pages to retrieve.
We analyze queries for which the AIO retrieved more than 30 web pages (about 2% of all queries).
These queries tend to be open-ended in nature, e.g., “What jobs will AI agents replace?” and “How
can I calm down myself”. On the other hand, queries where AIO retrieved very few, e.g., 2 or
fewer web pages (15% of AIOs) tend to be short and fact-seeking, e.g., “what is alabama state
university motto”, “Where is the capital of South Korea?”’). The results show that for static, wellaccepted facts, generative search can potentially retrieve the information from the model’s internal
knowledge, saving the effort spent in retrieving 10 Organic search results, and the effort on the
users’ part to process them. We now explore this potential in more detail.
4.2
RETRIEVAL EFFICIENCY ON STATIC FACTS
Retrieval is not free—it incurs additional cost and latency. In this section, we compare the efficiency
of various generative engines by studying their retrieval patterns on well-known facts, i.e., facts that
frontier models are expected to recall from their internal memory alone (Liang et al., 2023).
We use a special-purpose dataset of simple factual queries with static answers. The dataset consists
of 249 questions, each asking for the capital of a country or territory. Queries follows the template
“What is the capital of XX?”. Full dataset construction details and prompt templates are provided
in Appendix C.
Engine
% search
mean #URLs
Accuracy
GPT-Tool
0 %
100%
GPT-Search
98%
5.2
100%
Gemini
100%
4.47
100%
AIO
–
5.83
99.5%
Table 1: Retrieval behavior on simple factual queries.
As shown in Table 1, all engines except AIO achieve
100% accuracy.
AIO produces a single error, mistaking the capital of the country Georgia for Atlanta, the capital of the US state of the same name.
GPT-Tool does not perform a single search yet answers all queries correctly, hinting at the potential for
enhancing efficiency for simple queries related to static
facts. The results show that generative search engines
frequently perform web searches even for queries
answerable from internal knowledge alone.
4.3
EFFICIENCY ON TIME-SENSITIVE QUERIES
While some queries can be answered from internal, static knowledge, others depend critically on
recent information. We therefore turn to time-sensitive queries, i.e., the Trends dataset (§3.1), to
examine how generative search engines behave when queries require recent, up-to-date information.
We find large structural differences w.r.t. to static queries (§4.2). Figure 3, left panel, shows the
number of retrieved links per query. The median number of retrieved links is 5 or more for all
engines. GPT-Tool still retrieves the least number of links.
We next measure the number of distinct concepts covered by each generative engine. Methodological details of the concept detection procedure are provided in §5.3. GPT-Search achieves the highest average coverage (72%), followed by Organic (67%) and Gemini (66%), while GPT-Tool
lags behind at 51%. Manual inspection of queries where GPT-Tool exhibits low coverage shows
that the model often fails on fast-changing or event-driven topics that require external retrieval. For
example, for the query “ricky hatton cause of death”, GPT-Tool lacks access to recent information,
becomes uncertain, and incorrectly reports Ricky Hatton as alive (see Figure 3, right panel).
Findings of §4.2 and §4.3 highlight a tension between efficiency and accuracy in generative search.
For simple, static factual queries, the optimal response may simply be the correct entity name. Long
answers or extensive web searches may not add value. However, over-reliance on internal knowledge
can lead to outdated answers when information changes over time. Correctly differentiating between
static facts and dynamic knowledge can help mitigate this tradeoff.

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
Links / query
Mean
Median
Cause Unreleased
Status Confusion
Misinformation Circulation
Death Unconfirmed
Not Suspicious
Police Report
Coroner Involvement
Mental Health Struggles
Mental Health Advocacy
Post-Retirement Struggles
Suicide Awareness
Boxing Tributes
Boxing Community
Comeback Plans
Boxing Champion
Distinguished Career
Alive Status
Death Report
Concept
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Full Organic
Strategy
Figure 3: Left: Number of retrieved links on the trending queries dataset. Right: Concept coverage
of different search engines on the query “ricky hatton cause of death”. Low concept coverage shows
that GPT-Tool does not have all the information available.
SOURCE BREADTH & CONTENT DIVERSITY
Reliance on internal v.s. external knowledge alone does not determine what information users ultimately see. We now examine the popularity, ranking depth, and diversity of cited sources to understand how generative search engines reshape the informational landscape relative to traditional
search.
5.1
SOURCE POPULARITY AND RANK DEPTH
Most generative engines cite sources of lower popularity than Organic search. We use the
Tranco rankings1 to measure the rank of sources within the 1M most visited domains. 89% of
Organic sites appear in the top 1M list, compared to 85% for AIO, 86% for GPT-Search, 83%
for Gemini, and 81% for GPT-Tool. Figure 4 shows the rank CDF for the links that were found
within the Tranco 1M list. While GPT-Tool retrieves fewer popular sites overall, the sources
it does cite are often highly ranked: its median domain rank (1,124) exceeds that of Organic
(2,352), except on the Products dataset. For the Regulatory Actions dataset, both the GPT models
retrieve sources that are ranked significantly higher.
Generative search reaches far beyond Organic search. Figure 5 shows that the AIO links have
less than 50% overlap with the top-10 Organic results, and overlap remains below 60% even
when considering the top-100. Figure 13 in Appendix E shows the overlap for other search engines.
Overlap is substantially lower for Gemini and GPT-Search, and close to zero for GPT-Tool.
Domain-level overlap is higher than URL-level overlap, but a substantial fraction of cited domains
still fall outside the top-100 Organic domains (Figure 14). These findings indicate that generative
search significantly broadens the set of consulted sources.
5.2
SOURCE DIVERSITY
Generative engines draw from different types of sources than Organic search. We classify
domains into high-level categories using the Google Content Categories (26 categories) and a more
web-oriented hand-designed categorization (10 categories) using an LLM as a judge. The handdesigned list includes categories like “Encyclopedia” (e.g., Wikipedia and World Atlas) and “Science
Publisher” (e.g., to classify websites like ACM, ScienceDirect and arXiv). Details can be found in
Appendix E.1.
Figures 15 and 16 in Appendix E.3 show large differences in category distribution of websites retrieved by various engines. The GPT models rely heavily on Corporate Entities and Encyclopedias,
with less reliance on Social Media and User Forums. In contrast, other engines can retrieve up to
35% from such websites. In summary, not only does it expand the depth of retrieval, generative
search also reshapes the composition of sources to which users are exposed.
1https://tranco-list.eu (Retrieved in July 2025)

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
AllSides
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
Reg. Actions
Products
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Science
MS Marco
WildChat
Cumulative Probability
Figure 4: Different search engines select information
from domains of differing ranks.
AllSides
Reg. Actions
Products
Science
MS Marco
WildChat
0%
25%
50%
75%
100%
Share of AIO Links
Organic
Position
1-10
11-30
31-50
51-100
No overlap
Figure 5: Overlap between AIO links
and top-100 Organic links.
5.3
CONCEPTUAL DIVERSITY
We now study how differences in sources translate into differences in the content presented to users.
5.3.1
OUTPUT CHARACTERISTICS
Generative engine outputs differ structurally from Organic search and between engines.
Across generative engines, output length and the number of links vary widely. For GPT-Tool,
GPT-Search, and Gemini, longer responses tend to include more links, whereas AIO often
produces comparatively short texts with many citations (Figure 6). Gemini produces the longest
responses on average (2505 ± 552 characters), with especially long outputs for Products (mean:
3636±995), while GPT-Tool generates the shortest texts (mean: 1018±219) and cites the fewest
links (0.25 per search result).
Mean # Links per Text
Mean Text Length
AllSides
Reg. Actions
Products
Science
MS Marco
WildChat
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
Figure 6: Ratio between the retrieved
number of links and text length.
We next examine how these differences shape the topical
breadth of the content.
5.3.2
TOPICAL CONTENT ANALYSIS
We compare the high-level concepts mentioned per
search engine for each query. We use LLooM (Lam et al.,
2024), an LLM-powered topic inference framework that
annotates unstructured text with interpretable concepts
(details in Appendix E.2).
Traditional and generative search achieve similar overall topic coverage. Across datasets, generative engines achieve coverage comparable to Organic search (Figure 7). For instance, average
coverage ranges from 0.71 (GPT-Tool) to 0.78 (Gemini), closely matching Organic (0.78).
In most cases, the first five organic search results are sufficient to achieve high coverage, with cumulative gain showing diminishing returns. This observation raises a key design question: When
generative search can condense objective information into concise responses, how many organic
snippets does a user actually need to see?
While aggregate coverage values are similar, the specific concepts mentioned differ across engines.
The average concept overlap between generative engines and Organic ranges only from 60% to
68% per query (Figure 10 in Appendix E.2). At the 10th percentile of queries, where agreement
across engines is lowest, Organic reaches a median coverage of 67%, compared to 55% for AIO
and 48% for GPT-Tool. Queries in this low-agreement regime tend to be underspecified (e.g.,
“when did Queen Elizabeth”), malformed (e.g., “when is a gene”), or ambiguous (e.g., “what is
an example of inequality?”). Figure 11 in Appendix E.2 illustrates an example in which different
engines surface largely non-overlapping concepts for the same query. In other words, Organic
search retains an advantage on ambiguous queries.
Overall, this analysis suggests that, despite accessing more, and often lower-ranked, sources, generative search engines do not consistently surface more concepts than traditional search.

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
AllSides
Actions
Products
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic 1
Organic 1 2
Organic 1 3
Organic 1 4
Organic 1 5
All Organic
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Science
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic 1
Organic 1 2
Organic 1 3
Organic 1 4
Organic 1 5
All Organic
MS Marco
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic 1
Organic 1 2
Organic 1 3
Organic 1 4
Organic 1 5
All Organic
WildChat
% Concepts Covered
Figure 7: Fraction of concepts covered per engine. Organic reaches high coverage within five
results.
STABILITY OF GENERATIVE SEARCH
Generative search systems introduce new challenges around the stability of search outputs. They
combine evolving web content, complex retrieval pipelines, and stochastic language models. As a
result, identical queries may yield different outputs depending on when and how they are executed.
We study two complementary sources of variability: temporal drift, arising from changes in models
and web content over time, and stochasticity, which can induce variation even across closely spaced
executions of the same query.
6.1
TEMPORAL STABILITY
To quantify how outputs evolve as the web and models update, we repeated all experiments approximately two months apart (July/August and September 2025).
The number of triggered AIOs and conducted searches for GPT-Tool see minor changes (Table 5
in Appendix A.2). We also do not observe any notable changes in the number of links retrieved by
different engines, with the only notable exception being AIO where the average number of links per
query changes from 8.4 to 7.2.
Rank distributions remain mostly consistent for Organic search, but vary considerably for generative systems, especially GPT-Tool and GPT-Search, whose retrieved domain popularity shifts
by as much as 40,000 ranks (Figure 8a in Appendix D.1). Comparing the Jaccard similarity between
sets of retrieved links across runs (Figure 8b in Appendix D.1) shows highest overlap for Organic
search (45%). In contrast, AIO exhibits substantially lower overlap (18%) between runs. This observation aligns with prior reports indicating that Google’s AI mode often returns markedly different
results across repeated sessions.2 Despite this source-level variability, overall conceptual coverage
remains largely stable across time (Figure 8c in Appendix D.1), indicating that generative systems
can maintain a similar topic coverage in their generated summaries even as retrieved sources change.
6.2
LLM STOCHASTICITY
Generative search engines rely on stochastic language models and dynamic retrieval pipelines. To
assess whether this stochasticity materially affects search outcomes, we curate a custom dataset
from WildChat (Zhao et al., 2024) that allows only three possible answers: affirmative, negative,
or mixed. The dataset consists of questions like “Is it rare for K-pop songs nowadays to have full
Korean track titles?”. We provide details on dataset construction in Appendix D.2.
2https://tinyurl.com/aio-differences

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
Response
t0
No, the Province of Soria does not directly border Navarre; Soria is in central Spain, bordered
by La Rioja, Zaragoza, Guadalajara, Segovia,
and Burgos, ...
t5m
Yes, the Province of Soria (in Castile and León)
and the region of Navarre share a border, with
Soria touching Navarre and Aragon to its east-
/northeast, ...
t24h
Yes, the Province of Soria in Spain does border
Navarre; they share a northern boundary, ...
Table 2:
AIO responses for the query
“Does the Soria province have a border with
Navarre?”. Both wording and final answer
polarity change over time.
Our goal is to study whether the stochasticity of
the underlying LLM changes the polarity of the response, e.g., from affirmative to negative. To that
end, we issued the queries at three time points (t0,
t5m := t0 + 5 minutes, and t24h := t0 + 24 hours.
We study two temperature conditions: (i) a zerotemperature setting, and (ii) the default temperature
per model (1.0 for GPT-Tool and Gemini, temperature control is not supported for GPT-Search
and AIO). Since generative models can provide an
affirmative response without mentioning the term
“yes”, we use an LLM-based judge to classify each
response as affirmative, negative, or mixed (details
in Appendix D.3). Table 2 shows example responses
and the corresponding judge annotations.
Decision Stability and Comparison to Organic Search. Table 3 reports the fraction of queries
for which the overall decision changes. We observe substantial decision instability in decisions
across all generative search engines. Even at T = 0, between 9% and 17% of queries exhibit a
decision flip within five minutes, with slightly higher rates observed over 24 hours. Lexical overlap
across repeated executions is low for all engines. Mean Jaccard similarity ranges from 0.38 to 0.63
at zero temperature (Table 6 in Appendix D.4), indicating that repeated executions often share less
than half of their lexical content. Increasing the temperature further amplifies textual variability for
most engines that have temperature control.
Engine
Temp. = 0
Default Temp.
t0 →t5
t0 →t24
t0 →t5
t0 →t24
GPT-Tool
9%
10%
18%
18%
GPT-Search
16%
17%
15%
22%
Gemini
15%
15%
20%
20%
AIO
17%
16%
11%
17%
Table 3: Percentage of queries with a flip
in repeated executions (between affirmative,
negative, mixed).
We compare the answer polarity of Organic search
with generative search. While generative search output consists of one coherent piece of text, Organic
search shows around 10 results on the first page. We
label each of the top ten search results individually.
Across all generative engines, 55% of the responses
are labeled as affirmative, 19% as negative, and 26%
as mixed. In contrast, in only 16% of queries, all
top-10 organic search results express a single polarity label (affirmative, negative, or mixed). These results highlight a structural difference between search
paradigms: Organic search distributes ambiguity and disagreement across multiple results. Generative search resolves this plurality into a single answer that may itself change over time.
CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
We conduct a systematic evaluation of generative search engines, focusing on new dimensions that
are largely absent from traditional ranked-list evaluation. We show that generative search introduces
trade-offs in how information is retrieved, synthesized, and presented. In particular, systems vary
substantially in their reliance on internal v.s. external knowledge, retrieval efficiency, knowledge
breadth, and stability. Despite often achieving comparable topical coverage, generative engines
differ markedly in their retrieval footprints, source diversity, and sensitivity to time and stochasticity.
These findings suggest that evaluating generative search requires moving beyond correctness-centric
metrics towards benchmarks that explicitly account for sourcing behavior, synthesis, and variability
over time. This work opens several directions for future work. User-centric evaluations could study
how different search paradigms affect trust, perception of transparency, satisfaction, and decisionmaking. The observed temporal and stochastic variability motivate longitudinal evaluations that
track system behavior over time and across model updates. Finally, evaluating a broader range of
models and retrieval architectures could shed light on how different design choices shape retrieval
strategies and synthesis behavior.

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
LIMITATIONS
Our work has several limitations. First, the scope of our analysis is restricted to selected query workloads spanning general information, products, politics, and science. We did not consider multi-turn
conversational searches, and all experiments used English-language queries in only two countries.
Second, our analysis of Organic search content is limited to the first ten results, assuming users
rarely go beyond the first page.
While prior work provides evidence to supports this assumption (Bar-Ilan et al., 2009; Nowicki, 2003; sea, 2025), it may not hold for niche cases. We also
restrict our analysis to the title, URL, and snippet of each search result, assuming that users rarely
click on links. While there is some evidence supporting this behavior (Miroyan et al., 2025), we
acknowledge that this design omits the information contained in the full underlying webpages and
ignores possible user actions that deviate from these assumptions.
Third, our evaluation captures a limited time window, while both organic and generative outputs
evolve over time with model updates, indexing changes, and emerging events. Furthermore, we
examine a limited set of search engines. Our study focuses on deployed, closed generative search
systems. Moreover, generative outputs are inherently non-deterministic, and our evaluation uses
only one output per query, though we used a temperature value of 0 whenever configurable.
Finally, our content analysis relies on an LLM-based concept induction method (LLooM), which
may introduce potential bias and can reflect the model’s own knowledge gaps or preferences. While
human annotation could verify these concepts, it does not scale well to large datasets. Future work
should explore scalable alternatives, such as semi-supervised methods (e.g., labeled LDA), and combine coverage metrics with fact-checking and credibility assessments.
ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS
We believe this study does not raise direct ethical concerns or potential risks. The WildChat dataset
we used contains real-world user-LLM interactions. However, any sensitive or harmful content was
removed by the dataset authors prior to our use. All other queries in our evaluation were drawn from
publicly available datasets, commercially available product lists, or were generated synthetically
for the purpose of controlled experiments. Our analysis focuses exclusively on publicly accessible
search results and model outputs, without altering or influencing any live search systems.
REFERENCES
Grounding
with
google
search.
https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/
google-search, 2025. Accessed: 2025-08.
An
in
depth
look
at
interactions
with
google
using
eye
tracking
methodology.
https://searchengineland.com/wp-content/seloads/2007/09/
hotchkiss-eye-tracking-2005.pdf, 2025. Accessed: 2025-08.
Qingyao Ai, Ting Bai, Zhao Cao, Yi Chang, Jiawei Chen, Zhumin Chen, Zhiyong Cheng, Shoubin
Dong, Zhicheng Dou, Fuli Feng, Shen Gao, Jiafeng Guo, Xiangnan He, Yanyan Lan, Chenliang
Li, Yiqun Liu, Ziyu Lyu, Weizhi Ma, Jun Ma, Zhaochun Ren, Pengjie Ren, Zhiqiang Wang, Mingwen Wang, Ji-Rong Wen, Le Wu, Xin Xin, Jun Xu, Dawei Yin, Peng Zhang, Fan Zhang, Weinan
Zhang, Min Zhang, and Xiaofei Zhu. Information Retrieval Meets Large Language Models: A
Strategic Report from Chinese IR Community, July 2023.
Marwah Alaofi, Negar Arabzadeh, Charles L. A. Clarke, and Mark Sanderson. Generative Information Retrieval Evaluation. volume 51, pp. 135–159. 2025. doi: 10.1007/978-3-031-73147-1_6.
Mohammad Aliannejadi, Jacek Gwizdka, and Hamed Zamani. Interactions with Generative Information Retrieval Systems, July 2024.
Andrea Bacciu, Enrico Palumbo, Andreas Damianou, Nicola Tonellotto, and Fabrizio Silvestri. Generating Query Recommendations via LLMs, June 2024.

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
Payal Bajaj, Daniel Campos, Nick Craswell, Li Deng, Jianfeng Gao, Xiaodong Liu, Rangan Majumder, Andrew McNamara, Bhaskar Mitra, Tri Nguyen, et al. Ms marco: A human generated
machine reading comprehension dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.09268, 2016.
Judit Bar-Ilan, Kevin Keenoy, Mark Levene, and Eti Yaari. Presentation bias is significant in determining user preference for search results—a user study. J. Am. Soc. Inf. Sci. Technol., 60(1):
135–149, January 2009. ISSN 1532-2882.
Hung-Ting Chen and Eunsol Choi. Open-World Evaluation for Retrieving Diverse Perspectives,
April 2025.
Sunhao Dai, Chen Xu, Shicheng Xu, Liang Pang, Zhenhua Dong, and Jun Xu. Bias and Unfairness
in Information Retrieval Systems: New Challenges in the LLM Era. In Proceedings of the 30th
ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pp. 6437–6447, Barcelona
Spain, August 2024. ACM. doi: 10.1145/3637528.3671458.
Sunhao Dai, Wenjie Wang, Liang Pang, Jun Xu, See-Kiong Ng, Ji-Rong Wen, and Tat-Seng Chua.
NExT-Search: Rebuilding User Feedback Ecosystem for Generative AI Search. In Proceedings
of the 48th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information
Retrieval, pp. 3922–3931, July 2025. doi: 10.1145/3726302.3730353.
Tim Draws, Nava Tintarev, and Ujwal Gadiraju. Assessing Viewpoint Diversity in Search Results
Using Ranking Fairness Metrics. SIGKDD Explor. Newsl., 23(1):50–58, May 2021. ISSN 19310145. doi: 10.1145/3468507.3468515.
Lukas Gienapp, Harrisen Scells, Niklas Deckers, Janek Bevendorff, Shuai Wang, Johannes Kiesel,
Shahbaz Syed, Maik Fröbe, Guido Zuccon, Benno Stein, Matthias Hagen, and Martin Potthast.
Evaluating Generative Ad Hoc Information Retrieval. In Proceedings of the 47th International
ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pp. 1916–1929,
Washington DC USA, July 2024. ACM. ISBN 9798400704314. doi: 10.1145/3626772.3657849.
Guangxin He, Zonghong Dai, Jiangcheng Zhu, Binqiang Zhao, Qicheng Hu, Chenyue Li, You Peng,
Chen Wang, and Binhang Yuan. Zero-Indexing Internet Search Augmented Generation for Large
Language Models, December 2024.
Xuming Hu, Xiaochuan Li, Junzhe Chen, Yinghui Li, Yangning Li, Xiaoguang Li, Yasheng Wang,
Qun Liu, Lijie Wen, Philip S. Yu, and Zhijiang Guo. Evaluating Robustness of Generative Search
Engine on Adversarial Factual Questions, February 2024.
Shijue Huang, Wanjun Zhong, Jianqiao Lu, Qi Zhu, Jiahui Gao, Weiwen Liu, Yutai Hou, Xingshan
Zeng, Yasheng Wang, Lifeng Shang, Xin Jiang, Ruifeng Xu, and Qun Liu. Planning, creation,
usage: Benchmarking llms for comprehensive tool utilization in real-world complex scenarios,
2024a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.17167.
Yue Huang, Lichao Sun, Haoran Wang, Siyuan Wu, Qihui Zhang, Yuan Li, Chujie Gao, Yixin
Huang, Wenhan Lyu, Yixuan Zhang, Xiner Li, Hanchi Sun, Zhengliang Liu, Yixin Liu, Yijue
Wang, Zhikun Zhang, Bertie Vidgen, Bhavya Kailkhura, Caiming Xiong, Chaowei Xiao, Chunyuan Li, Eric P. Xing, Furong Huang, Hao Liu, Heng Ji, Hongyi Wang, Huan Zhang, Huaxiu
Yao, Manolis Kellis, Marinka Zitnik, Meng Jiang, Mohit Bansal, James Zou, Jian Pei, Jian
Liu, Jianfeng Gao, Jiawei Han, Jieyu Zhao, Jiliang Tang, Jindong Wang, Joaquin Vanschoren,
John Mitchell, Kai Shu, Kaidi Xu, Kai-Wei Chang, Lifang He, Lifu Huang, Michael Backes,
Neil Zhenqiang Gong, Philip S. Yu, Pin-Yu Chen, Quanquan Gu, Ran Xu, Rex Ying, Shuiwang
Ji, Suman Jana, Tianlong Chen, Tianming Liu, Tianyi Zhou, William Yang Wang, Xiang Li, Xiangliang Zhang, Xiao Wang, Xing Xie, Xun Chen, Xuyu Wang, Yan Liu, Yanfang Ye, Yinzhi Cao,
Yong Chen, and Yue Zhao. Position: TrustLLM: Trustworthiness in large language models. In
Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Zico Kolter, Katherine Heller, Adrian Weller, Nuria Oliver, Jonathan Scarlett, and Felix Berkenkamp (eds.), Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine
Learning, volume 235 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 20166–20270. PMLR,
21–27 Jul 2024b. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v235/huang24x.html.
Tae Hyun Baek and Minseong Kim. Is chatgpt scary good? how user motivations affect creepiness and trust in generative artificial intelligence.
Telematics and Informatics, 83:102030,

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
2023. ISSN 0736-5853. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tele.2023.102030. URL https://www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0736585323000941.
Min Jiang. Search Concentration, Bias, and Parochialism: A Comparative Study of Google, Baidu,
and Jike’s Search Results From China. Journal of Communication, 64(6):1088–1110, 2014. ISSN
1460-2466. doi: 10.1111/jcom.12126.
Hwiyeol Jo, Taiwoo Park, Hyunwoo Lee, Nayoung Choi, Changbong Kim, Ohjoon Kwon,
Donghyeon Jeon, Eui-Hyeon Lee, Kyoungho Shin, Sun Suk Lim, Kyungmi Kim, Jihye Lee,
and Sun Kim. Taxonomy and Analysis of Sensitive User Queries in Generative AI Search, April
2025.
Suneel Kumar Kingrani, Mark Levene, and Dell Zhang. Diversity Analysis of Web Search Results.
In Proceedings of the ACM Web Science Conference, pp. 1–2, Oxford United Kingdom, June
2015. ACM. doi: 10.1145/2786451.2786502.
Michelle S. Lam, Janice Teoh, James A. Landay, Jeffrey Heer, and Michael S. Bernstein. Concept
induction: Analyzing unstructured text with high-level concepts using lloom. In Proceedings of
the CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, CHI ’24, pp. 1–28. ACM, May
2024. doi: 10.1145/3613904.3642830. URL http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3613904.
3642830.
Dirk Lewandowski. A framework for evaluating the retrieval effectiveness of search engines. In
Next generation search engines: Advanced models for information retrieval, pp. 456–479. IGI
Global Scientific Publishing, 2012.
Alice Li and Luanne Sinnamon. Generative AI Search Engines as Arbiters of Public Knowledge:
An Audit of Bias and Authority, May 2024.
Wenjun Li, Dexun Li, Kuicai Dong, Cong Zhang, Hao Zhang, Weiwen Liu, Yasheng Wang, Ruiming
Tang, and Yong Liu. Adaptive tool use in large language models with meta-cognition trigger.
ArXiv, abs/2502.12961, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.12961.
Percy Liang, Rishi Bommasani, Tony Lee, Dimitris Tsipras, Dilara Soylu, Michihiro Yasunaga,
Yian Zhang, Deepak Narayanan, Yuhuai Wu, Ananya Kumar, Benjamin Newman, Binhang Yuan,
Bobby Yan, Ce Zhang, Christian Alexander Cosgrove, Christopher D Manning, Christopher Re,
Diana Acosta-Navas, Drew Arad Hudson, Eric Zelikman, Esin Durmus, Faisal Ladhak, Frieda
Rong, Hongyu Ren, Huaxiu Yao, Jue WANG, Keshav Santhanam, Laurel Orr, Lucia Zheng,
Mert Yuksekgonul, Mirac Suzgun, Nathan Kim, Neel Guha, Niladri S. Chatterji, Omar Khattab, Peter Henderson, Qian Huang, Ryan Andrew Chi, Sang Michael Xie, Shibani Santurkar,
Surya Ganguli, Tatsunori Hashimoto, Thomas Icard, Tianyi Zhang, Vishrav Chaudhary, William
Wang, Xuechen Li, Yifan Mai, Yuhui Zhang, and Yuta Koreeda.
Holistic evaluation of language models. Transactions on Machine Learning Research, 2023. ISSN 2835-8856. URL
https://openreview.net/forum?id=iO4LZibEqW.
Featured Certification, Expert
Certification.
Cong Lin, Yuxin Gao, Na Ta, Kaiyu Li, and Hongyao Fu. Trapped in the search box: An examination
of algorithmic bias in search engine autocomplete predictions. Telematics and Informatics, 85:
102068, November 2023. ISSN 0736-5853. doi: 10.1016/j.tele.2023.102068.
Lin Liu, Jiajun Meng, and Yongliang Yang. Llm technologies and information search. Journal of
Economy and Technology, 2:269–277, 2024.
Nelson F. Liu, Tianyi Zhang, and Percy Liang. Evaluating Verifiability in Generative Search Engines, October 2023.
Kerstin Mayerhofer, Robert G. Capra, and David Elsweiler. Blending queries and conversations:
Understanding trust, verification, and system choice in search and chat interactions. Proceedings
of the 2025 ACM SIGIR Conference on Human Information Interaction and Retrieval, 2025. URL
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:277621390.
Liv McMahon and Zoe Kleinman. Glue pizza and eat rocks: Google ai search errors go viral.
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cd11gzejgz4o, 2025. Accessed: 2025-08.

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
Mihran Miroyan, Tsung-Han Wu, Logan King, Tianle Li, Jiayi Pan, Xinyan Hu, Wei-Lin Chiang,
Anastasios N. Angelopoulos, Trevor Darrell, Narges Norouzi, and Joseph E. Gonzalez. Search
arena: Analyzing search-augmented llms, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.
05334.
Reiichiro Nakano, Jacob Hilton, Suchir Balaji, Jeff Wu, Long Ouyang, Christina Kim, Christopher Hesse, Shantanu Jain, Vineet Kosaraju, William Saunders, et al. Webgpt: Browser-assisted
question-answering with human feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.09332, 2021.
Pranav Narayanan Venkit, Philippe Laban, Yilun Zhou, Yixin Mao, and Chien-Sheng Wu. Search
Engines in the AI Era: A Qualitative Understanding to the False Promise of Factual and Verifiable
Source-Cited Responses in LLM-based Search. In Proceedings of the 2025 ACM Conference on
Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency, FAccT ’25, pp. 1325–1340, New York, NY, USA,
June 2025. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400714825. doi: 10.1145/3715275.
3732089.
Stacy Nowicki. Student vs. search engine: Undergraduates rank results for relevance. portal: Libraries and the Academy, 3:503–515, 07 2003. doi: 10.1353/pla.2003.0065.
Lawrence Page, Sergey Brin, Rajeev Motwani, and Terry Winograd. The pagerank citation ranking:
Bringing order to the web. Technical report, Stanford infolab, 1999.
Lu Qin, Jeffrey Xu Yu, and Lijun Chang. Diversifying Top-K Results, August 2012.
Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessì, R. Raileanu, M. Lomeli, Luke Zettlemoyer, Nicola
Cancedda, and Thomas Scialom. Toolformer: Language models can teach themselves to use tools.
ArXiv, abs/2302.04761, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/pdf/2302.04761.pdf.
Zeyang Sha, Shiwen Cui, and Weiqiang Wang. Sem: Reinforcement learning for search-efficient
large language models. ArXiv, abs/2505.07903, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/pdf/
2505.07903.
Nikhil Sharma, Q. Vera Liao, and Ziang Xiao. Generative Echo Chamber? Effect of LLM-Powered
Search Systems on Diverse Information Seeking. In Proceedings of the 2024 CHI Conference
on Human Factors in Computing Systems, CHI ’24, pp. 1–17, New York, NY, USA, May 2024.
Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400703300. doi: 10.1145/3613904.3642459.
Xiang Shi, Jiawei Liu, Yinpeng Liu, Qikai Cheng, and Wei Lu.
Know where to go: Make
llm a relevant, responsible, and trustworthy searchers. Decision Support Systems, 188:114354,
2025. ISSN 0167-9236. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2024.114354. URL https://www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923624001878.
Clemencia Siro, Yifei Yuan, Mohammad Aliannejadi, and Maarten de Rijke. AGENT-CQ: Automatic Generation and Evaluation of Clarifying Questions for Conversational Search with LLMs,
October 2024.
Dimitrios Skoutas, Enrico Minack, and Wolfgang Nejdl. Increasing Diversity in Web Search Results.
2010.
Weiwei Sun, Lingyong Yan, Xinyu Ma, Shuaiqiang Wang, Pengjie Ren, Zhumin Chen, Dawei Yin,
and Zhaochun Ren. Is ChatGPT Good at Search? Investigating Large Language Models as ReRanking Agents, December 2024.
Qwen Team. Qwen3 technical report, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.09388.
Aleksandra Urman, Mykola Makhortykh, and Roberto Ulloa. Auditing Source Diversity Bias in
Video Search Results Using Virtual Agents. In Companion Proceedings of the Web Conference
2021, pp. 232–236, Ljubljana Slovenia, April 2021. ACM. ISBN 978-1-4503-8313-4. doi: 10.
1145/3442442.3452306.
Marc Zao-Sanders. How people are really using gen ai in 2025, 2025. URL https://hbr.org/
2025/04/how-people-are-really-using-gen-ai-in-2025.
Wenting Zhao, Xiang Ren, Jack Hessel, Claire Cardie, Yejin Choi, and Yuntian Deng. Wildchat: 1m
chatgpt interaction logs in the wild, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01470.

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
Dataset
Domain
Example queries
MS Marco
General
(search engine)
- origin of term doldrums
- knowledge based technology definition
- what causes typhoid fever
WildChat
General
(chatbot)
- how do i stop procrastinating
- what is rca in and in which part
it is used in
- which tech CEO is worth more than
$ 1 billion
AllSides
Politics
- what is the personal income tax
- what is terrorism in 100 words
- how does the global economy
affect jobs and career
Regulatory
Actions
Politics
- what alternatives are offered
after ending DEI programs?
- is my personal bitcoin affected by
the strategic bitcoin reserve and stockpile?
Science
Science
- what is discreet search
- what is set based programming
- what company is leading in robotics
Products
Shopping
- crocs worth it
- school supplies reviews
- best bedroom storage dresser
Trends
Recency
- when does ios 26 come out
- emmy winners 2025
- ricky hatton cause of death
Table 4: Example queries from each dataset. The datasets span five domains: politics, science,
shopping, general real-world queries, and recent search trends.
A
DATASETS
A.1
ADDITIONAL DETAILS ON DATASET CONSTRUCTION
Our goal was to select datasets that cover one or more of the following desiderata. The datasets
should: (i) reflect real users’ queries to both traditional and generative search engines, (ii) cover
everyday queries as well as more domain-specific workloads like politics, science, and shopping,
and (iii) not only focus on queries relating to persistent topics (e.g., “nemesis in literature”), but
also focus on time-dependent topics, e.g., “Designating English as the official language of the US”
which was an executive order issued in March 2025. With these desiderata in mind, we consider the
following datasets:
MS Marco. The dataset contains real Bing search queries for open-domain retrieval and QA (Bajaj
et al., 2016). We randomly sampled 1, 000 queries.
WildChat. We subsample the dataset of 1 million queries released by Zhao et al. (2024). The authors gathered the dataset by granting users free access to ChatGPT and recording their interactions
with the model. The authors of the original dataset post-processed it to remove PII, sensitive, and
toxic conversations. Since our goal is to compare search results of traditional and generative search
engines, we exclude queries that are conversational in nature. Specifically, we filter out queries that
contain “you”, “your” or “u”. We also filter out queries shorter than 4 or longer than 75 characters.

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
We only select queries that start with “who”, “what”, “when”, “where”, “why”, “how”, “which”,
sampling 250 queries from each starting word. In total, we obtain 1, 750 queries.
AllSides. We generate this dataset to specifically focus on political issues. We take a list of political
topics and issues from the news media site AllSides.com.3 We excluded topics if they were primarily
geographic (e.g., China, Russia), economic without direct political framing (e.g., Business, Banking
and Finance), cultural (e.g., Arts and Entertainment), or overly broad (e.g., World, General News)
or ambiguous (Criminal Justice). Examples of included topics are “abortion”, “immigration” and
“religion and faith”. We convert the topics to search queries as follows: We feed the topic to Google
as a search query and gather 10 user-centric questions using Google’s “People Also Ask” feature.
We also include the topic itself as a query.
Regulatory Actions. We generate this dataset to capture political queries pertaining to recent events.
We gathered a list of major executive orders issues by the second Trump administration. We use the
list maintained by the Brookings Institute.4 In total, we gathered 58 executive orders covering the
timespan between January and July 2025. For each action, we ask GPT-4o to generate 10 questions
that a real person might ask about the action. The prompt for generating the queries about the
executive orders (Section 3.1).
You are a helpful assistant that generates realistic questions that
people might ask about regulatory actions.
Please generate {num questions} different questions that a real person
might ask about this regulatory action:
{action}
The questions should be:
- Natural and conversational (like how someone would actually ask)
- Focused on practical concerns, implications, or clarifications that a
person might ask about
- Short and direct (less than 15 words)
- Self-contained (include the name of the action in each question)
- Different from each other
Format your response as a JSON array of strings, like this:
[“Question
1”, “Question 2”, “Question 3”, ...]
Respond only with the JSON array, no additional text.
September 2025
July 2025
#AI Overviews
# Searches GPT
#AI Overviews
# Searches GPT
Dataset
#Items
#Queries
US
DE
US
DE
US
DE
US
DE
WildChat
1M
1,750
1,425
1,050
1,007
1,031
MS Marco
100K
1,000
Products
AllSides
Reg. Actions
Science
Trends
–
–
–
–
Table 5: Statistics for each dataset. Experiments were conducted in July/August and September
2025. #Items shows the number of items in the source dataset. #Queries shows the number of
queries we obtained after the processing steps performed in Section 3.1. #AI Overviews shows the
number of Google AI Overviews generated for US and Germany (DE). # Searches GPT shows the
percentage of times GPT-Tool performed a web search.
3https://www.allsides.com/topics-issues
4http://brookings.edu/articles/tracking-regulatory-changes-in-the-second-trump-administrati
(Accessed: 18/07/25)

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
Science. Our goal here was to gather queries related to scientific topics. We manually gathered 45
AI-related topics from the ACM Computing Classification System (CCS).5 Topics include entries
like “Information extraction”, “Machine translation” and “Vagueness and fuzzy logic”. We pass the
topics to Google as a search query and gather 10 user-centric queries listed under the “People Also
Ask” heading.
Products. With this dataset, our goal was to study the difference in search results on product-related
queries. We take a list of the 100 most searched Amazon products of 2023 from semrush.6 Searches
include terms like “apple watch band”, “desk” and “iphone 13 case”. We then turn the queries into
review and comparison-oriented questions using custom templates like “<product name> review”
and “<product name> worth it”.
Given an item from the top-100 Amazon search terms, we use a GPT-4 model to annotate each
product with categories and subcategories from Amazon’s own category system (e.g., Electronics,
Computers, Arts & Crafts), and to generate potential use cases which represent real-world needs or
scenarios for the item. We manually extracted the brand names from items that mention a brand.
Given a search term, the usecase, the corresponding category, subcategory and the brand name, we
manufacture the search queries as follows:
1. <product name> reviews
2. <product name> worth it?
3. alternatives to <product name>
4. best <product name>
5. best <subcategory name> for <use case>
6. best <use case> <subcategory name>
In total, the datasets consist of 4, 606 queries.
Trends. To analyze the behavior of different search engines in response to recent events, we create a
dataset of trending queries. We retrieve the top 100 search trends from Google Trends on September
15th, 2025, and query each search engine on the same day. Google Trends7 analyzes the popularity
of search terms in Google Search across the world, reflecting current public attention.
Table 4 shows examples of queries from each dataset.
A.2
DATASET-LEVEL STATISTICS
Table 5 reports the total number of data points, number of queries that we randomly selected for
search, number of queries that lead to AI Overviews and the percentages of these that triggered a
search in GPT-Tool.
B
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
Our desiderata for selecting search engines are to: (i) study both traditional and generative search
engines, (ii) cover generative models whose dedicated use is to be a web search engine as well
as generative models that are mainly chatbots but can use web search as a tool to respond to user
queries. The latter is motivated by the fact that users are increasingly using chatbots to perform tasks
similar to web search (Hyun Baek & Kim, 2023; Zao-Sanders, 2025). We focus on deployed, userfacing search systems to characterize how generative search behaves in practice. Our objective is
not to evaluate models in isolation, but end-to-end systems that integrate retrieval, ranking, and synthesis. Because most open-source models still lack comparable, interchangeable search pipelines,
directly comparing them to closed systems would conflate model capability with system design.
5https://dl.acm.org/ccs
6https://www.semrush.com/blog/most-searched-items-amazon/
(Accessed:
18/07/25)
7https://trends.google.com

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
We use the following search engines:
Organic Google Search (Organic). We query the Google search engine to obtain the search
results, setting the number of top results to be retrieved to 100. In order to compare the overlap
between generative search and Google search at various ranks, we analyze these top 100 returned
results the Organic search. For the remaining analysis, we only consider the top 10 results. In
rare cases, Google returns fewer than 10 results due to the presence of other content, like Google
Knowledge Graph results. We use the SERP API to automatically query Google websites.8
Google AI Overviews (AIO). In addition to the organic search results, a Google search in most
cases also results in an AI Overview. Whether to generate an AI Overview is decided internally by
Google Search. The AI Overviews are also accompanied by source URLs that were used to generate
the AI overview. Overall, 81% of the queries generated an AI overview in the US location and 65%
of the queries generated an AI overview for the DE location. See Table 5 in Appendix A for the
number of cases per dataset. We perform the search comparisons only for cases where all the search
engines (organic and generative) produce an answer. Hence, we query the remaining models only
with inputs where AIO generated a response.
Gemini-2.5-Flash with Google Search (Gemini). While Gemini-2.5-Flash is primarily an AI
assistant, it can be used with web search to ground the results (gem, 2025). Given a query, the model
first decides if a web search should be performed. For our datasets, the model performs the search
in more than 99.5% of the cases. If the model decided to perform a search, it transforms the original
query by rephrasing it one or more times. For instance, the query “What are the main goals of
the Make America Healthy Again Commission?” is transformed to search queries “Make America
Healthy Again Commission goals” and “Make America Healthy Again Commission objectives”.
We use a thinking budget of 0 tokens.
GPT-4o
Search
(GPT-Search)
always
performs
a
web
search
before
returning
an
answer.
We
set
the
search
radius
to
“medium”.
We
used
the
model
version
gpt-4o-search-preview-2025-03-11.
GPT-4o with Search Tool (GPT-Tool) determines on a per-query basis whether to use web search
as a tool. Except for the Products and Regulatory Actions datasets, the percentage of cases when the
model performs a search is close to 0. See Table 5 in Appendix A for details. We set the search radius
to “medium”. Results for different search context size settings are reported in the Appendix G. The
model version we use is gpt-4o-2024-08-06.
Miscellaneous Parameters. All queries were performed in English. Queries for the generative AI
models (Gemini, GPT-Search, and GPT-Tool) were performed using their respective APIs.
For models that support a temperature parameter (Gemini and GPT-Tool), we set it to 0. We
set the maximum new tokens to 1, 000. All queries were performed in September 2025. To study
the effect of location, we performed queries from two locations: United States (US) and Germany
(DE). We used virtual machines on Google Compute Platform to ensure that the requesting IPs were
located in the corresponding country. The main paper contains the results for the US location, we
provide a discussion of the results for the DE location in Appendix F.
C
SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL FOR SECTION 4
C.1
DETAILS ON CAPITALS DATASET CONSTRUCTION
We construct a dataset of factual queries asking for the capital of countries to study retrieval behavior
on simple information needs. We start from a comprehensive list of 249 countries.9 For each country,
we generate a natural-language query of the form “What is the capital of XX?”. To reflect narural
English phrasing, we add definite articles where appropriate (e.g., “the Netherlands”), generated
using gpt-5.2-chat. The resulting dataset consists of 249 short queries. We use the Google
8https://serpapi.com/search-api
9https://github.com/umpirsky/country-list/blob/master/data/en_US/
country.csv

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
50K
25K
+25K
+50K
AllSides
Reg. Actions
Products
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
50K
25K
+25K
+50K
Science
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
MS Marco
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
WildChat
Change in avg. rank
(a)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
AllSides
Reg. Actions
Products
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Science
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
MS Marco
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
WildChat
Avg. Overlap (Jaccard)
(b)
0.4
0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
AllSides
Reg. Actions
Products
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic 1
Organic 1 2
Organic 1 3
Organic 1 4
Organic 1 5
All Organic
0.4
0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
Science
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic 1
Organic 1 2
Organic 1 3
Organic 1 4
Organic 1 5
All Organic
MS Marco
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic 1
Organic 1 2
Organic 1 3
Organic 1 4
Organic 1 5
All Organic
WildChat
 % Concepts Covered (New 
 Old)
(c)
Figure 8: Left: Changes in average popularity rank per dataset between July/August and September
2025. Organic shows the smallest changes in ranks. Average ranks of generative engines change
by as much as 40,000. Middle: Average link overlap per query between the two runs. Organic and
Gemini are the most consistent. Right: Changes in average concept coverage per query. Changes
in concept coverage are very small throughout.
Knowledge Graph as the ground-truth source and manually resolve ambiguous cases (e.g., countries
with multiple administrative capitals).
The prompt used for optionally adding definite articles to the countries using gpt-5.2-chat:
Given the following CSV dataset, create an additional column
"question_country" derived from the "country" column.
The "question_country" value must be grammatically correct in the
sentence:
"What is the capital of {question_scountry}?"
Use the country name as-is when no article is required.
Articles
are added only when required in standard English usage, e.g., for
plural country names, country names containing "Islands", or political
entities commonly used with a definite article (e.g., the United
States).
Do not change the country names themselves.
Output the complete dataset as a CSV file including the new column.
D
SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL FOR SECTION 6
D.1
DETAILED RESULTS FROM SECTION 6.1
Figure 8 shows the difference in rank distribution of retrieved web pages (Figure 8a) and the overlap
between the links (Figure 8b) when comparing the July/August and September 2025 snapshots.
D.2
DETAILS ON DATASET CONSTRUCTION
We curate binary yes/no queries from the WildChat dataset (Zhao et al., 2024) using a multi-stage
filtering pipeline. First, we apply rule-based heuristics to identify interrogative prompts that are

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
structurally compatible with binary responses, while excluding open-ended questions and those containing wh-words (e.g., what, which, who) that typically elicit non-binary answers. We then remove
duplicate and near-duplicate queries to reduce redundancy. For the remaining candidates, we estimate the likelihood of a “yes” versus “no” response using the Qwen3-30B-A3B-Instruct (Team,
2025) model and retain only questions whose predicted probability of a “yes” response falls within
a narrow ambiguity range of 0.4–0.6. This ambiguity-based criterion yields a balanced set of wellformed yes/no questions suitable for controlled comparisons across repeated executions. Finally,
we perform a manual review to eliminate semantically trivial or meaningless queries (e.g., “can
you speak Spanish”), ensuring the resulting dataset contains 209 substantive and informative binary
questions.
D.3
DETAILS ON LLM-BASED JUDGE
We use an LLM-based judge to classify each output as either affirmative, negative, or mixed. The
model used is gpt-5.2-2025-12-11 with Temperature 0. The prompt used for classifying
model responses:
You will be given a question and a corresponding answer by a
respondent.
The question is designed to be answered in an affirmative (e.g., "yes")
or negative (e.g., "no") manner.
However, answers may be longer or
phrased without explicit "yes" or "no".
The answer can also contain both affirmative and negative elements,
e.g., depending on conditions or qualifiers.
The answer can also
express neither an affirmative nor negative stance, e.g., due to
uncertainty or avoidance.
We call these cases "mixed".
Your task is to classify the respondent’s answer as "affirmative",
"negative", or "mixed", and provide a brief rationale.
The question is:
{QUESTION}
The respondent’s answer is:
{ANSWER}
The JSON response format used is shown in Listing 1.
Listing 1: Judge response JSON schema
{
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"stance": {
"type": "string",
"enum": ["affirmative", "negative", "mixed"]
},
"rationale": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": ["stance", "rationale"],
"additionalProperties": false
}
D.4
DETAILS ON TEXTUAL OVERLAP
Table 6 shows the textual overlap between repeated execution of the same queries at different
timesteps (Section 6.1).

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
Engine
Temp. = 0
Default Temp.
t0 →t5
t0 →t24
t0 →t5
t0 →t24
GPT-Tool
0.63 ± 0.23
0.63 ± 0.23
0.31 ± 0.10
0.31 ± 0.10
GPT-Search
0.43 ± 0.16
0.42 ± 0.19
0.44 ± 0.19
0.41 ± 0.16
Gemini
0.39 ± 0.14
0.38 ± 0.11
0.31 ± 0.09
0.32 ± 0.10
AIO
0.47 ± 0.32
0.36 ± 0.22
0.50 ± 0.32
0.19 ± 0.21
Table 6: Mean Jaccard similarity of repeated executions. Lower values indicate greater textual
variability.
E
SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL FOR SECTION 5
E.1
DOMAIN CATEGORY CLASSIFICATION
We classify URLs into various categories using their domain (e.g., wikipedia.org). We consider two
different categorizations:
1. Google Content Categories: We use the 26 top level categories from Google Content
Categories.10 Example categories include “Science”, “News” and “Home and Garden”.
2. Custom categories: Google content categories can be too numerous and broad, e.g.,
“Games”, “Reference”. We manually define the following categorization.
[i]
(a) News Media Site
(b) Science Publisher
(c) Encyclopedia
(d) Social Media & User Forum
(e) Government
(f) NGO and Non-Profit
(g) Think Tank
(h) Corporate Entity
(i) Personal Blog
(j) None of the above
We use gpt4-turbo to categorize each domain into the the categorization. The prompt we used
is:
Classify the following domain into one of the provided categories.
Only respond with the name of the assigned category.
Domain:
’wikipedia.org’
Categories:
<list of categories>
E.2
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON LLOOM
We utilize LLooM (Lam et al., 2024), an automated concept induction tool, to identify, score, and
compare high-level concepts mentioned in the responses from different engines per query.
LLooM operates in two stages. First, using a LLM, it analyzes a set of texts and proposes concepts
of increasing generality, along with inclusion criteria and representative text examples. In the second
stage, it uses these concepts as labels to classify texts (again, by using a LLM), annotating if a given
concept is present.
10https://cloud.google.com/natural-language/docs/categories

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
For each query, we combine the output of all search engines, that is the four generative search
engines and the Organic search, and apply LLooM to detect topics. Each search engine’s output
is treated as a separate document except for Organic search. For Organic search, we treat
each of the (usually 10) results as a separate document. LLooM then produces a combined set
of topics found in the collection of all the different engines’ outputs for that query (stage 1). We
then classify each search engine’s output against these topics to measure the fraction of identified
concepts that each output contains (stage 2). LLooM classifies the presence of the topic at a 5point scale of [“strongly disagree”, “disagree”, “neutral”, “agree”, “strongly agree”]. We deem a
topic to be present if the classification output is “agree” or “strongly agree”. Figure 9 shows an
example of the topics surfaced for a query and how each engine scores them. Following the authors’
implementation, we use gpt-4o for stage 1 and gpt-4o-mini for stage 2.
Mathematical Concepts
Regulatory Examples
Inequality Expressions
Mathematical Conditions
Symbolic Representation
Quantitative Examples
Essential Role
Limits and Restrictions
Non-Equal Relationships
Lack of Balance
Relative Size
False Information
Inequality Example
Algebraic Concept
Concept
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
Strategy
Figure 9: Concepts covered by different strategies for the query “What is an example of inequality?”.
The x-axis shows the topics discovered in the search engine outputs, the y-axis shows the search
engines. Blue boxes indicate that the topic was present in the output of that search engine. Search
engines differ in the concepts they bring up.
E.3
REMAINING FIGURES FROM SECTION 5
In this section, we report the overlap between the generative search engines and the top 100 links
retrieved by Organic search. Overlap increases when matching domains (see Figure 13) as compared to matching the URLs returned by the respective engines (see Figure 14). GPT models show
the lowest overlap with organic search results overall, while Gemini had the highest overlap. On
MS Marco, Gemini captures more than 75% of the top 100 links across queries.
We also report the remaining pie chart analyses of the types of links retrieved by each engine for
our custom categorization (Figure 15) and Google’s taxonomy (Figure 16). For GPT models, we
observe a high share of encyclopedias and news media websites. Organic search includes up to
35% social media and user forums. However, few such domains are identified for GPT models.
Figure 12 shows the concept coverage distribution on queries that have low concept coverage.

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
CDF
Organic vs GPT-Tool
AllSides
Actions
Products
Science
MS Marco
WildChat
Organic vs GPT-Search
Overlap (%)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
CDF
Organic vs Gemini
Overlap (%)
Organic vs AIO
Figure 10: Overlap of concepts between Organic and generative search engines.
F
DISCUSSION OF RESULTS FOR THE DE LOCATION
We replicate all experiments described in the main paper for queries issued from the DE (Germany)
locale. Overall, the qualitative trends and relative differences between search engines closely mirror those observed for the US location. We do not observe systematic or statistically significant
deviations in source diversity, topic coverage, or content characteristics. The primary observable
difference concerns the availability of Google AI Overviews. Across datasets, AI Overviews are
triggered less frequently in the DE locale than in the US (see Table 5). We leave further investigation of how geographic location influences generative search behavior to future work.
G
SUPPLEMENTARY ANALYSIS OF GENERATIVE SEARCH OUTPUTS
For GPT-based models, the API allows specifying a search context size parameter with values low,
medium, and high. This parameter controls the amount of external web information the model retrieves and integrates into its response, affecting cost, response quality, and latency.11 Larger context
sizes are expected to produce more comprehensive, but slower and more expensive, answers. Although this parameter has since been deprecated, we analyze its effects across the available settings
(low, medium, high).
Minimal Impact of Search Context Size. Across all datasets, varying the search context size does
not materially affect sourcing or response content. The likelihood of performing a web search, the
number of retrieved links per query, and the popularity rank of retrieved domains remain stable
across context sizes. Similarly, response length and topic coverage show no meaningful variation.
For example, GPT-Search achieves average concept coverage of 78%, 78%, and 77% for low,
medium, and high settings, respectively, while GPT-Tool remains at 71% throughout. We also
observe notable overlap in the concepts retrieved across different context sizes. On WildChat, for
instance, the average concept overlap between any two context settings is approximately 65%.
11https://aiengineerguide.com/blog/openai-web-search-tool/

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
Tough Grader
Participation Emphasis
Challenging Exams
Mixed Opinions
Average Rating
Business Leadership
Media Industry
Cable Television
Philanthropy
Education
Land Ownership
Concept
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
Strategy
Figure 11: Topic coverage on the query “who is john malone at cc” (WildChat). Blue boxes indicate
that the topic was present in the output of that search engine. While GPT-Tool and GPT-Search
mention a professor called John Malone, the other search engines refer to a billionaire businessman.
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
AllSides
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Reg. Actions
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Products
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Science
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
MS Marco
AIO
Gemini
GPT-Tool
GPT-Search
Organic
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
WildChat
Coverage
Figure 12: Concept Coverage distribution on low coverage queries. Low coverage queries are those
where the fraction of concepts jointly covered by all strategies falls in the bottom 10th percentile of
the distribution within a dataset. Organic search maintains stable coverage on these queries, while
generative engines like GPT-Tool struggle to maintain good coverage.

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
AllSides
Reg. Actions
Products
Science
MS Marco
WildChat
0%
25%
50%
75%
100%
Share of AIO Links
Organic
Position
1-10
11-30
31-50
51-100
No overlap
(a) AIO
AllSides
Reg. Actions
Products
Science
MS Marco
WildChat
0%
25%
50%
75%
100%
Share of Gemini Links
Organic
Position
1-10
11-30
31-50
51-100
No overlap
(b) Gemini
AllSides
Reg. Actions
Products
Science
MS Marco
WildChat
0%
25%
50%
75%
100%
Share of GPT-Tool Links
Organic
Position
1-10
11-30
31-50
51-100
No overlap
(c) GPT-Tool
AllSides
Reg. Actions
Products
Science
MS Marco
WildChat
0%
25%
50%
75%
100%
Share of GPT-Search Links
Organic
Position
1-10
11-30
31-50
51-100
No overlap
(d) GPT-Search
Figure 13: [URL overlap] Overlap between the URLs retrieved by the top-100 Organic search
results and the AIO, Gemini, GPT-Tool and GPT-Search models.
AllSides
Reg. Actions
Products
Science
MS Marco
WildChat
0%
25%
50%
75%
100%
Share of
AIO Domains
Organic
Position
1-10
11-30
31-50
51-100
No overlap
(a) AIO
AllSides
Reg. Actions
Products
Science
MS Marco
WildChat
0%
25%
50%
75%
100%
Share of 
Gemini Domains
Organic
Position
1-10
11-30
31-50
51-100
No overlap
(b) Gemini
AllSides
Reg. Actions
Products
Science
MS Marco
WildChat
0%
25%
50%
75%
100%
Share of 
GPT-Tool Domains
Organic
Position
1-10
11-30
31-50
51-100
No overlap
(c) GPT-Tool
AllSides
Reg. Actions
Products
Science
MS Marco
WildChat
0%
25%
50%
75%
100%
Share of 
GPT-Search Domains
Organic
Position
1-10
11-30
31-50
51-100
No overlap
(d) GPT-Search
Figure 14: [Domain overlap] Overlap between the domains retrieved by the top-100 Organic
search results and the AIO, Gemini, GPT-Tool and GPT-Search models.
28%
8%
7%
6%
13%
28%
AIO
Category
Corporate Entity
Encyclopedia
Government
NGO and Non-Profit
News Media Site
None of the above
Personal Blog
Science Publisher
Social Media & User Forum
Think Tank
29%
10%
6%
7%
18%
20%
Gemini
23%
11%
31%
20%
GPT-4o-Tool
23%
22%
6%
16%19%
GPT-4o-Search
22%
7%
6%
6%
14%
35%
Organic
33%
8%
11%
13%
13%5%
11%
32%
14%
8%
13%
18%
7%
27%
20%
53%
21%
29%
9%
15%6%15%
25%
10%
11%
15%
16%
15%
27%
26%
20%9%6%
5%
31%
18%
18%
14%7%
5%
41%
45%
8%
30%
8%
45%
25%
28%
21% 9%7%
6%
31%
5%
6%
22%
9%
20%
34%
12%
27%
13%
100%
18%
30%
6%
6%
25%
6%
26%
7%
6%
25%
7%
22%
15%
9%
15%
19%
5%
19%
10%
15%
16%
11%
24%
18%
7%
6%
17%
7%
56%
11%
8%
24%
11%
12%
26% 13%
11%
9%
17%
20%
5%
18%
14%
44%
20%
9%
20%
39%
26%
11%5%
16%
25%
41%
20%
5%
28%
38%
15%
6%
7%
30%
22%
6%
7% 32%
Figure 15: [Custom categorization] Categories of links retrieved by different search engines. The
rows correspond to WildChat, MS Marco, Regulatory Actions, Science, AllSides and Products. For
the same dataset, different search engines rely on different website types, e.g., social media.

Under review as a workshop paper at ICLR 2026
11%
9%
7%
7%
13%
17%
9%
AIO
Category
Adult
Arts & Entertainment
Autos & Vehicles
Beauty & Fitness
Books & Literature
Business & Industrial
Computers & Electronics
Finance
Food & Drink
Games
Health
Hobbies & Leisure
Home & Garden
Internet & Telecom
Jobs & Education
Law & Government
News
Online Communities
People & Society
Pets & Animals
Real Estate
Reference
Science
Sensitive Subjects
Shopping
Sports
Travel & Transportation
Unparseable
10%
10%
10%
6%
12%
11%
11%
Gemini
11%
6%
7%
8%
19% 12%
GPT-4o-Tool
9%
10%
6%
9%
11%
23%
GPT-4o-Search
12%
7%
9%
11%
22%
8%
Organic
7%
34%
13%
8%
5%
6%
25%
13%
14%
7%
7%
20%
33%
33%
28%
6%
29%
5%
25%
14%
8%10%
5%
9%
5%
7%
8%
50%
8%
12%
5%
5%
8%
44%
11%
41%
44%
35%
43%
7%
6%
9%
53%
9%
7%
14%
11%
6%
28%
10%6%
8%
13%
12%
6%
30%
9%
13%
100%
10%
12%
7%
21%
31%
5%
12%
11%
6%
29%
14%
7%
7%
5%
7%
24%
23%
6%6%
11%
7%
20%
19%
9%
19%
56%
30%
6%
13%
15%
27%
25%
7%
20%
24%
6%
10%7%
11%
15%
7%
12%
6%
9%
8%8%18%
12%
24%
6%
9%7%
12%
5%
5%
30%
5%
9%
19%
7%
8%
26%
11%
17%
15%
13%
7%
10%
18%
16%
Figure 16: [Google content categorization] Categories of links retrieved by different search engines.
The rows correspond to WildChat, MS Marco, Regulatory Actions, Science, AllSides and Products.
For the same dataset, different search engines rely on different website types, e.g., social media.