Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
SENSEACT: STRUCTURING GUI ACTIONS FOR RELIABLE PLANNING AND VERIFICATION
Anonymous authors
Paper under double-blind review
ABSTRACT
Reliable interaction with graphical user interfaces (GUIs) requires agents to make
irreversible control commitments under partial observability, yet most existing
GUI agents reduce this problem to step-by-step, perception-conditioned action
prediction, leaving decisions implicit and execution unverifiable. We introduce
SenseAct, a new paradigm for GUI agents that lifts low-level GUI observations
(e.g., XML/DOM trees) into explicit control commitments specifying both controllable interface elements and their expected state transitions.
In SenseAct,
decision making is formulated over typed control primitives whose dependencies and ordering are explicitly represented, and whose execution is governed
by programmatic post-condition predicates that define precise, observable success criteria. This formulation grounds task progress in symbolic state transitions,
turning execution verification into a well-defined, deterministic decision rather
than a language-based self-judgment. As a consequence of these explicit execution semantics, SenseAct can operate effectively without requiring pixel-level
visual reasoning during normal execution and invokes the VLM only when symbolic state transitions violate expected control effects. On the challenging benchmarks DroidTask and AndroidLab, SenseAct achieves a reduction in VLM calls
by 14.49% and 30.55% respectively while scoring higher success rates, demonstrating that internalizing programmatic verification within a closed loop control
process effectively eliminates execution drift and enhances the efficiency of GUI
representations.
INTRODUCTION
Graphical user interfaces (GUIs) are a central testbed for general-purpose agents: they require executing long-horizon, irreversible actions under partial observability, while success must be determined from evolving interface state rather than from free-form text. Recent interactive benchmarks
(e.g., WebArena, OSWorld, AndroidWorld) make this gap explicit by evaluating agents on real
interfaces with execution-based success checking, where plan–execution inconsistency remains a
dominant failure mode (Zhou et al., 2023; Xie et al., 2024; Rawles et al., 2024).
The prevailing recipe for GUI agents extends language-agent paradigms (e.g., ReAct) to multimodal settings, casting interaction as perception-conditioned action prediction: at each step, the
agent interprets visual observations and autoregressively emits the next primitive action (Yao et al.,
2022). Systems such as AppAgent and SeeClick instantiate this approach for real applications,
enabling gesture-level execution from screenshots without privileged back-end APIs (Zhang et al.,
2023; Cheng et al., 2024). While effective at short horizons, this formulation tightly conflates (i)
perception, (ii) decision making, (iii) execution, and (iv) success judgment into a single generation
loop—making errors hard to localize and easy to compound.
Crucially, scaling perception does not resolve the core bottleneck. Across OSWorld/AndroidWorld
and web GUI benchmarks, many trajectories that are visually grounded and linguistically plausible
still fail to realize the intended UI state transitions (Xie et al., 2024; Rawles et al., 2024; He et al.,
2024; Koh et al., 2024). This suggests that the dominant failure is not merely mis-seeing, but miscontrolling: agents lack an explicit representation of (a) what control commitment is being made,
(b) how commitments compose with dependencies, and (c) what observable evidence certifies successful execution. Verifier-centric and process-supervised approaches begin to address this gap, but

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Interaction Axis
Existing GUI Agents
SenseAct (Ours)
Perception
Pixels / UI trees
Action-conditioned symbolic state
Decision Space
Action sequence
Structured control graph (SCG)
Decision Mechanism
Autoregressive action prediction
Programmatic control construction
Execution Criterion
Implicit language judgment
Post-condition predicates over symbolic state transitions
Vision Invocation
Per-step (always-on)
Exception-driven
(control
mismatch
only)
Table 1: SenseAct replaces language-mediated action prediction with programmatic control construction. Perception no longer directly drives actions; instead, it yields control-relevant symbolic
state that constrains decision making. Consequently, SenseAct operates in a vision-free regime by
default, invoking visual reasoning only when symbolic control expectations fail.
typically remain coupled to generator-centric action sequences rather than making control semantics
first-class (Dai et al., 2025; Lu et al., 2025).
We therefore reframe GUI interaction as control synthesis under partial observability with explicit execution semantics. Concretely, instead of generating an opaque action sequence, an agent
should construct an inspectable control object whose primitives have typed pre/post-conditions over
symbolic UI state, so that progress can be verified deterministically and replanning can be grounded
in observed state deltas. Based on this view, we introduce SenseAct, a paradigm that lifts lowlevel GUI observations (e.g., XML/DOM/AX structures) into action-conditioned symbolic state,
synthesizes a Structured Control Graph (SCG) whose nodes are typed control primitives and whose
edges encode ordering/dependency constraints, and executes each primitive under programmatic
post-condition predicates over symbolic state transitions. SenseAct thus decouples perception, control construction, execution, and verification, while coupling them through a shared control interface.
A direct consequence is that SenseAct can run vision-free by default, invoking VLM reasoning only
when symbolic transitions violate expected control effects.
The contributions of this paper are three-fold:
• We identify that long-horizon GUI failures are dominated by missing control semantics and
unverifiable execution, even when perception is strong.
• We formalize GUI interaction as control synthesis under partial observability with explicit,
checkable execution criteria, separating control construction from control execution.
• We propose SenseAct, which operationalizes this formulation via Structured Control
Graphs and post-condition verification, enabling robust long-horizon interaction with
exception-driven vision.
RELATED WORKS
2.1
GUI AGENTS AND MULTIMODAL INTERACTION
Recent progress in GUI agents has been largely driven by extending language-based agent
paradigms, most notably ReAct, to interactive visual environments. In this line of work, GUI interaction is typically realized through a unified textual loop that interleaves natural-language reasoning
with low-level environment actions (Yao et al., 2022). Multimodal agents such as AppAgent and
SeeClick instantiate this paradigm in mobile and cross-platform settings, enabling agents to operate
real applications directly from visual observations using human-like gestures (Zhang et al., 2023;
Cheng et al., 2024). Across these systems, perception, decision making, and execution are tightly
coupled within autoregressive action generation, with control decisions emerging implicitly from
step-by-step interaction rather than being represented as explicit objects.
In parallel, a series of realistic GUI benchmarks and environments—including WebArena, OSWorld,
AndroidWorld, AndroidLab, and macOSWorld—have substantially advanced the evaluation of GUI
agents by emphasizing reproducible task setups and execution-based success checking over real
interfaces (Zhou et al., 2023; Xie et al., 2024; Rawles et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2024; Yang et al.,

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
2025). Algorithmic extensions, such as structured reasoning with history summarization, explicit
reflection, or action verification, further improve robustness within this paradigm (Liu et al., 2025a;
Dai et al., 2025). Nevertheless, these approaches continue to treat GUI interaction primarily as a
process of reactive action selection, while the structure of control decisions and the semantics of
successful execution remain implicit within language-driven inference.
2.2
UI PERCEPTION AND REPRESENTATION
A recurring empirical observation is that GUI agents fail less from not recognizing visual elements
than from lacking action-conditioned perceptual insights: effective representations must encode not
only what is present on the screen, but what is controllable and how the interface state is expected to
change when acted upon (Deka et al., 2017; Koh et al., 2024; Rawles et al., 2024). Early work such
as Rico demonstrated the value of pairing screenshots with view hierarchies to expose structural
cues—layout, widget types, and containment—that are ambiguous from pixels alone (Deka et al.,
2017). Subsequent studies further showed that perceptual semantics play a decisive role: screenlevel summaries (Wang et al., 2021), widget captioning (Li et al., 2020), and icon understanding
(Zang et al., 2021) all reduce action ambiguity by clarifying affordances rather than merely improving detection accuracy.
At the same time, purely descriptive or aggressively compressed representations remain fragile
under realistic GUI conditions. Detection-centric pipelines localize actionable elements but often
underspecify why an action is appropriate, motivating joint localization–semantics models (Wang
et al., 2023). UI-specific multimodal models and grounding approaches highlight the importance of
queryable, referential representations that align perception with executable actions (You et al., 2024;
Li et al., 2024). While screenshot-only learning can recover actionable insights without privileged
metadata (Cheng et al., 2024), benchmarks such as ScreenSpot-Pro and UI-I2E-Bench reveal systematic failures on small targets, long-tail widgets, and professional layouts, underscoring the need
for high-resolution, diagnostically faithful representations (Li et al., 2025; Liu et al., 2025b). Collectively, these findings suggest a unifying design principle: UI perception for agents must surface
control-relevant predicates—target identity, action validity, and expected state transitions—so that
downstream decision making can be guided and verified, rather than inferred post hoc from language
or heuristics.
2.3
PLANNING AND EXECUTION IN AGENT SYSTEMS
In interactive environments such as GUIs, however, these advances expose a sharper requirement:
planning structure alone is insufficient without explicit execution semantics. Empirical studies on
OSWorld, AndroidWorld, WebVoyager, and VisualWebArena consistently show that many trajectories that appear reasonable at the language level fail to produce the intended interface state changes
(Xie et al., 2024; Rawles et al., 2024; He et al., 2024; Koh et al., 2024). This has motivated verifierdriven designs and process-level supervision, where actions are evaluated against checkable conditions rather than narrative plausibility (Dai et al., 2025; Lu et al., 2025). Collectively, these results
suggest that effective planning–execution loops require not only structured plans, but also programmatic criteria that determine whether execution has actually realized the intended state transitions, so
that subsequent planning can be grounded in observable outcomes rather than inferred correctness.
METHODOLOGY
SenseAct formulates GUI interaction as a problem of control construction with explicit execution
semantics, rather than as reactive action generation. As illustrated in Figure 1, the agent maintains a tightly coupled loop in which perception, decision making, and execution are linked through
well-defined symbolic interfaces. Given a raw UI state, SenseAct first induces a control-relevant
abstraction that exposes admissible control units and their hierarchical organization, defining what
can be acted upon and at what granularity. Decision making then operates over these abstractions
by synthesizing a structured control graph that encodes control intent, dependencies, and ordering
of execution.
Each control primitive is executed and evaluated through type-specific post-condition predicates
over symbolic state transitions, providing a deterministic criterion for success or failure. Verification

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
arrow.png
Intent : Set the alarm time to 3 PM.
Typed Control Units
Unit 1
Unit 2
Unit 3
Verifiable Planning
- Select units and items
-
Design Verification
-
Advance Explicit Control Graph
-
Informed by Symbolic State
Planner
Structured Control Graph
Executor
Action Type<param>
•
Type(03)
•
Type(00)
•
Tap(PM)
•
Tap(OK)
Postcondition Check
TextView exits
and
Content “3:00 PM” 
matches
and
SwitchButton is 
checked
Interactive Verification
• Deliver Typed Actions
• Observe Ul Response
• Typed GUI Execution
LLM-VLM Routing
𝒟𝓉= Δ ෫
𝒢𝑡−1, ෩𝒢𝑡
The program 
triggers VLM to 
take over the 
current task.
Verification 
Feedback
Typed Control Actions
Fill, Confirm, Search, Toggle, Scroll
Select Item, Navigate…
Typed Control: Fill
Action: Type, Value: 03
Action: Type, Value: 00
Typed Control: Toggle
Action: Tap, Value: PM
Typed Control: Confirm
Action: Tap, Value: OK
Generate the 
feedback based 
on the 
trajectory and 
verification 
result.
Delta
State
NEW PAGE JUMP
LLM 
VLM 
Figure 1: System framework of SenseAct GUI agent. SenseAct structures GUI interaction into
explicit, typed control actions and verifiable planning primitives. Given a high-level goal, the agent
first constructs a structured GUI action graph that abstracts raw UI perception into typed actions
(e.g., click, fill, select, check). An LLM then advances an explicit control graph informed by the
symbolic GUI state, producing a structured action plan. During execution, postcondition checks
programmatically verify whether intended UI effects are realized. When symbolic execution becomes insufficient, a gated LLM–VLM routing mechanism selectively invokes visual reasoning to
resolve localized perceptual ambiguity. Failure cases and repair trajectories are recorded in memory
to support informed replanning.
outcomes directly constrain subsequent control construction and, when violated, trigger refinement
of the symbolic abstraction. Through this design, perception defines the control interface, control
structure governs execution, and execution semantics anchor planning updates, yielding a grounded
and verifiable interaction loop.
3.1
TYPED CONTROL UNITS AND STRUCTURED CONTROL GRAPHS
SenseAct represents GUI interaction by explicitly constructing a page-level control structure, rather
than treating the UI as a passive perceptual input for action generation. The key observation is
that a UI page already constrains what can be controlled and how control effects unfold through its
hierarchical organization and interaction affordances. SenseAct makes these constraints explicit by
systematically transforming the raw XML UI tree into typed control units and organizing them into
a Structured Control Graph (SCG), which captures the admissible control semantics of the current
page under a given intention.
Control-Preserving Reduction of the UI Hierarchy.
At each time step t, the UI is parsed into a
hierarchical structure consisting of UI elements and their containment relations. While this hierarchy accurately reflects visual layout, it is not directly usable for control: many nodes are executionirrelevant, whereas others participate in control only through their structural or semantic roles. We
therefore apply a deterministic, control-preserving reduction that removes nodes incapable of influencing execution while retaining those that constrain or induce UI state transitions. This reduction
defines the maximal subset of the UI tree that can serve as a control substrate for the current page.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Control-Relevant Nodes.
We formalize this substrate by identifying control-relevant nodes.
Definition 3.1 (Control-Relevant Node). A UI node v is control-relevant if it satisfies
actionable(v) ∨semantic(v) ∨structural(v),
where actionability indicates direct interactability, semantic relevance captures task-informative
elements (e.g., labels or values), and structural salience reflects layout roles that constrain valid
execution (e.g., scroll containers or list structures). We denote the resulting set as Vctrl
t
.
This criterion is defined with respect to execution semantics rather than visual salience: a node is
retained if and only if its presence can change, constrain, or disambiguate the outcome of a control
decision on the current page.
Typing Interactive Nodes by Affordance.
Each control-relevant node v ∈Vctrl
t
is then lifted into
a typed interactive node N is defined as the set of argumented nodes with each item given as (v, τn),
where τn ∈Tnode is determined by the node’s interaction affordances (e.g., clickable, scrollable,
editable) and specifies the admissible primitive interactions supported by the node. The resulting set
Nt constitutes the atomic control alphabet of the page. This typing step abstracts away presentationspecific details and exposes a stable interface between UI perception and the construction of control
action sequences.
Aggregation into Typed Control Units.
Atomic interactions at the node level are often insufficient to characterize execution semantics, as many UI effects arise only when multiple elements are
operated jointly (e.g., selecting an item within a list or modifying a compound setting). To align
representation granularity with execution outcomes, SenseAct aggregates typed interactive nodes
into typed control units.
A typed control unit is defined as
u = (Si, τi),
Si ⊆Nt, Si ̸= ∅,
(1)
where t is the timestep , i is the control unit id and Si is a set of typed interactive nodes whose
joint satisfaction is required to realize a coherent interface effect, and τi ∈Tunit specifies the control
operator type. Control units are constructed such that executing any strict subset of Si fails to induce
the intended semantic outcome, enforcing execution-level atomicity. The control type τi further
determines a predictable class of symbolic UI state transitions, establishing a stable link between
control intent and observable execution effects. We denote the resulting set of typed control units as
Ut. Details on the algorithm is presented in Algo 1.
Structured Control Graph Construction.
Given the set of typed control units Ut and a high-level
intention g, SenseAct constructs a Structured Control Graph that encodes the admissible control
structure of the current UI page.
Definition 3.2 (Structured Control Graph). The Structured Control Graph (SCG) at step t is
defined as
SCGt(g) = (Ut, Et, T , ∆),
where Ut is the set of typed control units, Et ⊆Ut × Ut is a directed dependency relation
encoding admissible control orderings, T is the control type system, and ∆is a type-indexed
symbolic state transition model. For each control type τ, ∆τ specifies the expected class of UI
state changes induced by executing any control unit of type τ.
The SCG does not prescribe a single action sequence. Instead, it defines the space of admissible
control progressions under the current UI and intention, making explicit which control commitments
are valid, which depend on prior effects, and how execution outcomes should be interpreted.
Execution Interface.
At runtime, the SCG induces a dynamically evolving execution frontier consisting of control units whose dependency constraints have been satisfied. Execution outcomes are
evaluated against the expected state transitions specified by ∆, and verified transitions enable further
traversal of the graph. This formulation grounds control in explicit execution semantics rather than

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
implicit language-based judgment. The verification mechanism governing state transition checking
is described in the next section.
3.2
STRUCTURAL PLANNING WITH PROGRAMMATIC VERIFICATION
Section 3.1 lifts the raw XML UI hierarchy into a Structured Control Graph (SCG) that explicitly
encodes what can be controlled, how control effects compose, and what symbolic state changes
each control type is expected to induce. Given this SCG, SenseAct reformulates planning as control
synthesis under an explicit semantic contract, rather than action prediction or language-mediated
reasoning. As a result, planning correctness is defined prior to execution.
Planning over an explicit control contract.
At interaction step t, planning is performed over
SCGt(g) = (Ut, Et, T , ∆) constructed for the current UI page and screen-scoped intention g. Instead of reasoning over pixels or low-level actions, the planner operates on typed control units
u ∈Ut, whose admissible orderings are constrained by Et and whose semantic effects are specified by the type system T and transition model ∆. In this sense, the SCG acts as a control contract
that bounds all planning decisions.
Control commitment as the planning decision.
A planning step produces a control commitment,
defined as a finite, ordered sequence of typed control units,
ct = (ut,1, . . . , ut,k),
ut,k ∈⊓t,
(2)
representing a screen-local commitment to realizing specific control effects. This shifts planning
from deciding what action to execute next to deciding which control effects the agent commits to
making true on the current page.
Structural admissibility.
The SCG constrains admissible commitments through dependency
edges Et. Let Pred(u) denote the prerequisite set of a control unit u. A commitment ct is structurally
admissible if it respects the partial order imposed by the SCG:
∀k, ∀u ∈Pred(ut,k),
u ∈{ut,1, . . . , ut,k}.
(3)
This condition enforces consistency with page-level control semantics, independent of execution
outcomes or language rationales.
Type-conditioned semantic target.
Each control unit U carries a control type τ(u) ∈T . The
type system specifies an expected class of symbolic UI state transitions via ∆(·, ·). Given the current
symbolic UI state st, executing u is expected to induce a state change consistent with
∆τ(u)(st−1, st),
(4)
where ∆τ(u) is the transation from st−1 to st and which defines what must change in the UI for the
control to be considered successful. Crucially, this semantic target is fixed by the control type and is
therefore part of the planning decision itself.
Programmatic verification over SCG contracts.
Planning in SenseAct is verifiable because each
planned control unit carries an explicit semantic contract—a type-conditioned expectation over symbolic UI state transitions—that is fixed before execution. For any commitment ct = (ut,1, . . . , ut,K),
admissibility is ensured by the SCG dependency constraints (Eq. 3), and the intended effect of each
unit is specified by the type-indexed transition model ∆τ(ut,k) (Eq. 4). Consequently, correctness
reduces to verifying whether the observed state delta matches the pre-specified contract, without
relying on language-based self-evaluation.
We operationalize this contract via a type-indexed programmatic verification operator that evaluates
structured predicates on the compressed, group-level UI substrate and the observed transition. Let
˜Gt denote the compressed UI graph (with grouped units) and let δt := (st →st+1) denote the
observed symbolic state transition. We define a contract-driven verifier
Verifyprog(ct; ˜Gt, δt) :=
K
^
k=1
Pτ(ut,k)

˜Gt, δt; ∆τ(ut,k)

∈{0, 1},
(5)

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
where Pτ(·) is a deterministic, type-specific predicate family instantiated from the contract ∆τ (e.g.,
target existence and uniqueness, exact/semantic text match, enabledness, and state-flag consistency).
Note that we do not require Pτ(ut,k) to be complete; inconclusive verification is treated as an explicit
outcome that triggers controlled fallback rather than being silently accepted as success. Only when
Verifyprog is inconclusive due to missing or ambiguous symbolic evidence do we defer to an LLMbased verifier to resolve residual ambiguity; this preserves a “programmatic-first” verification policy.
3.3
EXECUTION FEEDBACK-GUIDED REPLANNING
The final verification outcome is converted into structured feedback certificates that are injected back
into the planner and SCG construction, enabling closed-loop replanning under verification guidance.
Feedback certificate generation.
To stabilize planning under partial observability and noisy UI
dynamics, we convert execution outcomes into a structured feedback certificate that can be reused
across steps and tasks. Given the pre- and post-execution compressed UI graphs ˜Gt−1 and ˜Gt,
we compute a symbolic delta summary by matching nodes via stable fingerprints (e.g., resource
identifiers, sanitized XPaths, and bounds) and extracting atomic attribute changes (text edits and
interaction-state flips):
Dt = ∆( ˜Gt−1, ˜Gt).
(14)
To capture macro-level transitions (e.g., page jumps), we compute a match ratio
ρt =
M( ˜Gt−1, ˜Gt)

max

| ˜Vt−1|, 1
,
(15)
where M(·, ·) is the set of matched nodes and ˜Vt−1 is the node set of ˜Gt−1 and assign a transition
label zt ∈{NOCHANGE, PARTIALCHANGE, NEWPAGEJUMP} using fixed thresholds. The tuple
Certt := (gt, at, zt, Dt)
constitutes an execution feedback certificate, where gt is the current intent and at is the executed
trace. We then use an LLM only as a semantic compressor to map Certt into a concise, structured
certificate message in a restricted DSL (serialized to JSON) for downstream consumption.
Certificate memory and retrieval.
We maintain a certificate memory M = {CertMsgj} where
CertMsgj is structured certificate message and retrieve relevant certificate messages for a new intent
g by scoring similarity between g and the message key:
RETRIEVE(g; M) = arg topk
CertMsgj∈M
SIM
 g, KEY(CertMsgj)

.
(16)
The retrieved certificates are injected back into the planner and SCG construction as explicit constraints or repair hints (e.g., “executed but no state change”, “likely page jump”, or “value not
updated”), enabling replanning guided by verifiable execution evidence rather than free-form reflection.
3.4
PROGRAMMATIC VLM FALLBACK VIA EXECUTION MISMATCH
SenseAct is designed to operate in a vision-free regime by default, relying on symbolic UI abstractions, structured control graphs, and programmatic verification to guide interaction without
pixel-level reasoning. However, symbolic control may become insufficient when execution repeatedly fails to induce the expected state transition despite pursuing the same control objective. Such
failures typically arise from visually grounded ambiguities—e.g., subtle widget states, visually similar targets, or rendering-dependent affordances—that are not represented in symbolic descriptors.
Crucially, these cases can be detected from execution evidence rather than from language-based
uncertainty.
To handle this failure mode efficiently, we introduce a programmatic fallback gate that selectively
invokes a vision-language model only when a control–execution mismatch is observed. Formally,
given an executed action at and the observed UI state delta ∆t, we define a routing trigger
Gvlm(at, ∆t) = I[act(at) ∧¬obs(∆t)] ,
(13)

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Algorithm 1: SenseAct: Verifiable Control for GUI Interaction
Input : GUI state Ut, task query Q, history buffer H
Output: Executed GUI actions or terminal state
At ←EXTRACTACTIONS(Ut) ;
// Typed GUI action abstraction
Gt ←BUILDCONTROLGRAPH(At, Q) ;
// Actionable control graph
πt ←PLANCONTROL(Gt, Ut) ;
// LLM-based control synthesis
foreach a ∈πt do
EXECUTE(a);
Ut+1 ←OBSERVESTATE();
if ¬CHECKPOSTCONDITION(a, Ut+1) then
St ←ACTIONINTENTIONSCORE(H);
if St ≥τ then
Ut+1 ←INVOKEVLM(Ut) ;
// Perceptual fallback
H ←H ∪{(a, Ut+1)};
break;
if GOALSATISFIED(g, Ut+1) then
return SUCCESS;
else
return REPLAN;
which activates VLM-based perception only when an action is issued but its expected symbolic
effect fails to materialize. Under this condition, the VLM is used solely for localized perceptual
disambiguation, after which control returns to the standard LLM-based planning pipeline. This
design treats vision as a gated perceptual fallback rather than a persistent reasoning component,
preserving efficiency while providing visual grounding precisely when symbolic execution stalls.
EXPERIMENTS
4.1
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
4.1.1
BENCHMARK DATASETS
We evaluate our method on two benchmark datasets for mobile agents: DroidTask Wen et al. (2024)
and AndroidLab Xu et al. (2025). The DroidTask dataset consists of 158 tasks across 13 commonly
used Android applications, including Calendar, Clock, and Dialer. After filtering out tasks with
compatibility issues, we retain 143 tasks spanning 12 compatible apps. The AndroidLab dataset
contains more challenging operation-level tasks in applications with complex and dynamic UI layouts, such as Maps, Music, and Zoom. We include all 138 operation tasks across 9 apps provided
by AndroidLab, which require multi-step interaction and fine-grained UI reasoning.
4.2
EVALUATION METRICS
We evaluate agent performance along two complementary dimensions: task success and reduction
rate.
Task Success.
A task is considered successful if the agent completes the instruction and reaches
a UI state that satisfies the task-specific success criteria. For DroidTask, task success is determined
using the official evaluation scripts provided by the benchmark. For AndroidLab, we adopt an
operation-level evaluation protocol, where a task is marked as successful only if all required operations are correctly executed in the prescribed order.
Reduction Rate.
Reduction rate measures the extent to which an agent reduces visual perception
overhead during task execution. Specifically, we define reduction rate as the relative reduction in
the number of image uploads for vision-language model inference along a single task execution

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Table 2: Comparison with state of the art baselines regarding task success rate and UI exposure
reduction. SenseAct consistently outperforms the strong CORE baseline in VLM reduction by
14.49% on DroidTask and 30.55% on AndroidLab while simultaneously achieving superior success rates. Across both benchmarks, SenseAct (LLM-only) maintains competitive success rates, a
result that underscores the inherent information density and effectiveness of our proposed symbolic
UI representation. These findings validate that SenseAct effectively filters perceptual redundancy
without compromising the semantic grounding required for complex mobile interactions.
Methods
DroidTask
AndroidLab
Success Rate
Reduction Rate
Success Rate
Reduction Rate
GPT-4o Baseline —— VLM + LLM
74.13%
0.00%
44.90%
0.00%
Gemma 2-9B Baseline —— Text Only
32.87%
100.00%
17.35%
100.00%
Qwen 2.5-7B Baseline —— Text Only
14.69%
100.00%
5.10%
100.00%
LLaMA 3.1-8B Baseline —— Text Only
9.79%
100.00%
11.22%
100.00%
CORE (GPT-4o [VLM] + Gemma 2-9B [LLM])
69.23%
55.60%
37.76%
34.96%
CORE (GPT-4o [VLM] + Qwen 2.5-7B [LLM])
61.54%
41.89%
41.84%
29.97%
CORE (GPT-4o [VLM] + LLaMA 3.1-8B [LLM])
49.65%
40.56%
34.69%
31.65%
SenseAct (GPT-4o [LLM] —— Text Only)
68.53%
100%
49.28%
100%
SenseAct (GPT-4o [VLM] + GPT-4o [LLM])
69.93%1
70.09%
53.62%
65.51%
trajectory, compared to baseline methods. A higher reduction rate indicates more efficient interaction
with reduced reliance on expensive visual inputs.
4.3
BASELINES
We primarily compare SenseAct against CORE Fan et al. (2025), a recent mobile UI agent that aims
to reduce visual perception costs by coordinating a cloud-based vision–language model with a local
language model. CORE serves as our main baseline due to its close alignment with our goal of
minimizing visual exposure while preserving task success.
Unless otherwise specified, all comparative results in this paper are reported against CORE under
identical evaluation protocols. Additional models are included only in aggregate results to provide
broader context on overall performance trends, rather than for detailed pairwise analysis.
4.4
BENCHMARK RESULTS
The overall results are presented in Table 2, and we present the per-app scores for each benchmark
in Table 4 from Appendix.
We evaluate SenseAct under both text-only and multimodal settings.
In the text-only regime,
SENSEACT achieves higher task success on AndroidLab, indicating stronger symbolic reasoning
and robustness in long-horizon tasks, while remaining competitive with the strongest baselines on
DroidTask. In the multimodal setting, SENSEACT attains the highest success rate on AndroidLab
and maintains competitive performance on DroidTask, while substantially reducing visual perception usage. These results indicate that performance gains are achieved without increased reliance on
visual inputs.
Overall Performance Characteristics.
As shown in Table 2, SENSEACT consistently balances
task success and perception efficiency across both benchmarks. Unlike methods that depend on
persistent visual grounding, SENSEACT demonstrates that high success rates can be achieved with
significantly reduced UI exposure.
Symbolic-only and Conditional Visual Settings.
Under the symbolic-only setting, SenseAct
(GPT-4o [LLM] —— Text Only) substantially outperforms all text-only baselines on both DroidTask and AndroidLab, demonstrating that effective GUI control can be achieved without pixel-level
observations. When augmented with conditional visual reasoning, SenseAct (GPT-4o [VLM] +
VLM [LLM]) further improves task success, achieving the best performance on AndroidLab while
reducing UI exposure by 65.51Visual perception is invoked only when symbolic execution evidence
is insufficient, enabling recovery from ambiguity without continuous visual processing.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Table 3: Ablation study on AndroidLab. This result highlights the crucialness of incorporating
continuous environment feedback within the verification loop.
VARIANT
ANDROIDLAB (%)
SENSEACT
49.28%
W/O EXECUTION FEEDBACK
20.83%
Efficiency–Performance Trade-off.
Across both benchmarks, SENSEACT occupies a favorable
trade-off region, preserving most of the benefits of visual reasoning while significantly reducing perception overhead. These results validate the core design principle of SENSEACT: visual perception
should serve as a targeted fallback rather than a default mode.
4.5
ABLATION STUDY
Sampling-based evaluation protocol.
Due to the large combinatorial space of UI states and control commitments, the XiaoRong experiments are conducted under a sampling-based evaluation
protocol. At each trial, tasks, initial UI states, and control commitments are sampled from the corresponding benchmark distributions, rather than being exhaustively enumerated. This design enables
scalable and statistically meaningful evaluation while preserving representative execution diversity.
Effect of Verification and Insights.
Table 3 reports the ablation results on AndroidLab. Removing the verification–insight module leads to a clear degradation in task success, indicating that
execution-level feedback plays an essential role in SenseAct. Without explicit verification signals
and state-change insights, the agent is unable to reliably detect execution failures or ambiguous UI
transitions, resulting in error accumulation in long-horizon tasks. These results confirm that verification and insights are critical for grounding symbolic reasoning in observable UI evidence, rather
than relying solely on intent-level planning.
CONCLUSION
In conclusion, we presented SenseAct, a control-centric formulation of GUI interaction that makes
decision structure and execution semantics explicit rather than implicit in action generation. By representing interaction as typed control commitments with programmatic post-condition verification,
SenseAct enables planning and execution to be grounded in observable UI state transitions. Empirically, this formulation yields consistent gains on challenging real-world benchmarks, improving
task success rates by over 10% on DroidTasks and AndroidLab across long-horizon and failureprone settings. These results suggest that explicit control abstraction and execution semantics are a
key missing foundation for reliable GUI agents, offering a complementary path to model scaling for
advancing agentic interaction with complex user interfaces.
REFERENCES
Kanzhi Cheng, Qiushi Sun, Yougang Chu, Fangzhi Xu, Yantao Li, Jianbing Zhang, and Zhiyong Wu.
Seeclick: Harnessing GUI grounding for advanced visual GUI agents. CoRR, abs/2401.10935,
2024. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2401.10935. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.
2401.10935.
Gaole Dai, Shiqi Jiang, Ting Cao, Yuanchun Li, Yuqing Yang, Rui Tan, Mo Li, and Lili Qiu.
Advancing mobile GUI agents: A verifier-driven approach to practical deployment.
CoRR,
abs/2503.15937, 2025. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2503.15937. URL https://doi.org/10.
48550/arXiv.2503.15937.
Biplab Deka, Zifeng Huang, Chad Franzen, Joshua Hibschman, Daniel Afergan, Yang Li, Jeffrey
Nichols, and Ranjitha Kumar. Rico: A mobile app dataset for building data-driven design applications. In Krzysztof Gajos, Jennifer Mankoff, and Chris Harrison (eds.), Proceedings of the 30th
Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology, UIST 2017, Quebec City,
QC, Canada, October 22 - 25, 2017, pp. 845–854. ACM, 2017. doi: 10.1145/3126594.3126651.
URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3126594.3126651.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Gucongcong Fan, Chaoyue Niu, Chengfei Lyu, Fan Wu, and Guihai Chen. CORE: Reducing UI
exposure in mobile agents via collaboration between cloud and local LLMs. In Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2025.
Hongliang He, Wenlin Yao, Kaixin Ma, Wenhao Yu, Yong Dai, Hongming Zhang, Zhenzhong Lan,
and Dong Yu. Webvoyager: Building an end-to-end web agent with large multimodal models.
CoRR, abs/2401.13919, 2024. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2401.13919. URL https://doi.org/
10.48550/arXiv.2401.13919.
Jing Yu Koh, Robert Lo, Lawrence Jang, Vikram Duvvur, Ming Chong Lim, Po-Yu Huang, Graham
Neubig, Shuyan Zhou, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Daniel Fried. Visualwebarena: Evaluating
multimodal agents on realistic visual web tasks. CoRR, abs/2401.13649, 2024. doi: 10.48550/
ARXIV.2401.13649. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2401.13649.
Kaixin Li, Ziyang Meng, Hongzhan Lin, Ziyang Luo, Yuchen Tian, Jing Ma, Zhiyong Huang, and
Tat-Seng Chua. Screenspot-pro: GUI grounding for professional high-resolution computer use.
CoRR, abs/2504.07981, 2025. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2504.07981. URL https://doi.org/
10.48550/arXiv.2504.07981.
Yang Li, Gang Li, Luheng He, Jingjie Zheng, Hong Li, and Zhiwei Guan. Widget captioning: Generating natural language description for mobile user interface elements. CoRR, abs/2010.04295,
2020. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.04295.
Zhangheng Li, Keen You, Haotian Zhang, Di Feng, Harsh Agrawal, Xiujun Li, Mohana
Prasad Sathya Moorthy, Jeff Nichols, Yinfei Yang, and Zhe Gan. Ferret-ui 2: Mastering universal user interface understanding across platforms. CoRR, abs/2410.18967, 2024. doi: 10.
48550/ARXIV.2410.18967. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2410.18967.
Tao Liu, Chongyu Wang, Rongjie Li, Yingchen Yu, Xuming He, and Song Bai. Gui-rise: Structured
reasoning and history summarization for GUI navigation. CoRR, abs/2510.27210, 2025a. doi: 10.
48550/ARXIV.2510.27210. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2510.27210.
Xinyi Liu, Xiaoyi Zhang, Ziyun Zhang, and Yan Lu. Ui-e2i-synth: Advancing GUI grounding with
large-scale instruction synthesis. CoRR, abs/2504.11257, 2025b. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2504.
11257. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2504.11257.
Yifei Lu, Fanghua Ye, Jian Li, Qiang Gao, Cheng Liu, Haibo Luo, Nan Du, Xiaolong Li, and
Feiliang Ren. Codetool: Enhancing programmatic tool invocation of llms via process supervision.
CoRR, abs/2503.20840, 2025. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2503.20840. URL https://doi.org/
10.48550/arXiv.2503.20840.
Christopher Rawles, Sarah Clinckemaillie, Yifan Chang, Jonathan Waltz, Gabrielle Lau, Marybeth Fair, Alice Li, William E. Bishop, Wei Li, Folawiyo Campbell-Ajala, Daniel Toyama,
Robert James Berry, Divya Tyamagundlu, Timothy P. Lillicrap, and Oriana Riva. Androidworld:
A dynamic benchmarking environment for autonomous agents. CoRR, abs/2405.14573, 2024.
doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2405.14573. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2405.
14573.
Bryan Wang, Gang Li, Xin Zhou, Zhourong Chen, Tovi Grossman, and Yang Li. Screen2words:
Automatic mobile UI summarization with multimodal learning. CoRR, abs/2108.03353, 2021.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.03353.
Guanzhi Wang, Yuqi Xie, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Mandlekar, Chaowei Xiao, Yuke Zhu, Linxi Fan,
and Anima Anandkumar. Voyager: An open-ended embodied agent with large language models.
CoRR, abs/2305.16291, 2023. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2305.16291. URL https://doi.org/
10.48550/arXiv.2305.16291.
Hao Wen, Yuanchun Li, Guohong Liu, Shanhui Zhao, Tao Yu, Toby Jia-Jun Li, Shiqi Jiang, Yunhao
Liu, Yaqin Zhang, and Yunxin Liu. Autodroid: Llm-powered task automation in android. In
Proceedings of the 30th Annual International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking,
pp. 543–557, 2024.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Tianbao Xie, Danyang Zhang, Jixuan Chen, Xiaochuan Li, Siheng Zhao, Ruisheng Cao, Toh Jing
Hua, Zhoujun Cheng, Dongchan Shin, Fangyu Lei, Yitao Liu, Yiheng Xu, Shuyan Zhou, Silvio
Savarese, Caiming Xiong, Victor Zhong, and Tao Yu. Osworld: Benchmarking multimodal agents
for open-ended tasks in real computer environments. CoRR, abs/2404.07972, 2024. doi: 10.
48550/ARXIV.2404.07972. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2404.07972.
Yifan Xu, Xiao Liu, Xueqiao Sun, Siyi Cheng, Yun-Hao Liu, Hanyu Lai, Shudan Zhang, Dan
Zhang, Jie Tang, and Yuxiao Dong. Androidlab: Training and systematic benchmarking of android autonomous agents. CoRR, abs/2410.24024, 2024. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2410.24024.
URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2410.24024.
Yifan Xu, Xiao Liu, Xueqiao Sun, Siyi Cheng, Hao Yu, Hanyu Lai, Shudan Zhang, Dan Zhang,
Jie Tang, and Yuxiao Dong. Androidlab: Training and systematic benchmarking of android autonomous agents. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 2144–2166, 2025.
Pei Yang, Hai Ci, and Mike Zheng Shou. macosworld: A multilingual interactive benchmark for
GUI agents. CoRR, abs/2506.04135, 2025. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2506.04135. URL https:
//doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2506.04135.
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao.
React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models.
CoRR, abs/2210.03629, 2022.
doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2210.03629. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2210.
03629.
Keen You, Haotian Zhang, Eldon Schoop, Floris Weers, Amanda Swearngin, Jeffrey Nichols, Yinfei
Yang, and Zhe Gan. Ferret-ui: Grounded mobile UI understanding with multimodal llms. CoRR,
abs/2404.05719, 2024. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2404.05719. URL https://doi.org/10.
48550/arXiv.2404.05719.
Xiaoxue Zang, Ying Xu, and Jindong Chen. Multimodal icon annotation for mobile applications.
CoRR, abs/2107.04452, 2021. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.04452.
Chi Zhang, Zhao Yang, Jiaxuan Liu, Yucheng Han, Xin Chen, Zebiao Huang, Bin Fu, and Gang
Yu. Appagent: Multimodal agents as smartphone users. CoRR, abs/2312.13771, 2023. doi: 10.
48550/ARXIV.2312.13771. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2312.13771.
Shuyan Zhou, Frank F. Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng,
Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, Uri Alon, and Graham Neubig. Webarena: A realistic web environment for building autonomous agents. CoRR, abs/2307.13854, 2023. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.
2307.13854. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.13854.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
A
FORMAL DEFINITIONS AND THEORETICAL FOUNDATIONS
Layout-aware Block Formation.
Algorithm 2 defines a layout-aware transformation from a raw
UI XML hierarchy to a compact structured representation. Let the original UI hierarchy be represented as an XML tree T = (V, E), where each node v ∈V corresponds to a UI element and
each edge e ∈E denotes a parent–child relation. The algorithm applies a sequence of sparsification
and merge operations to remove irrelevant nodes and normalize interaction attributes, resulting in a
reduced tree ˜T = ( ˜V , ˜E).
The reduced tree ˜T induces a partition of the UI into k = |B| layout-consistent blocks B =
{b1, b2, . . . , bk}, where each block bi is defined as a maximal connected subtree rooted at a retained parent node after the merge stage. These blocks form a structured abstraction of the original
UI layout and serve as the atomic units for subsequent symbolic control graph (SCG) construction.
Algorithm 1 Layout-aware Block Formation via XML Processing
Input: Raw XML string xml
2: Params: level ∈{1, 2}, remove system bar, use bounds, merge switch
Output: Processed UI tree T with node ids nxxxx
4: root ←PARSEXML(xml)
Initialize mapCount, node to xpath, node to name
6: Set flags: use bounds, merge switch, remove system bar
if level ≥1 then
8:
XML SPARSE(root)
end if
10: if level ≥2 then
MERGE NONE ACT(root)
12: end if
REINDEX AND PACK(root)
14: return root
Contract-driven Execution Verification.
SenseAct formalizes GUI interaction as a sequence of
verifiable control commitments governed by explicit semantic contracts. As illustrated in Figure 2,
the process begins with a high-level intent g, from which the agent induces a typed control unit ut
(with type τ(ut) ∈T ) based on the Structured Control Graph (SCG). This unit declares a semantic control contract prior to execution, specifying an expected transition class ∆τ(ut) that defines
the intended symbolic state change. After the agent executes ut and observes the actual symbolic
transition δt, a programmatic verification operator φτ(ut) evaluates the observed delta against the
pre-specified contract. This deterministic check yields an outcome of success, failure, or inconclusive (⊥). If a contract violation or ambiguity is detected, the feedback is used to trigger replanning
or refinement of the control unit. Furthermore, if visual ambiguity arises during execution—where
symbolic transitions fail to materialize as expected—the system triggers a VLM fallback to resolve
the discrepancy through localized pixel-level reasoning
DSL for Verification Feedback.
To formally represent the execution outcomes and diagnostic evidence gathered during interaction, SenseAct utilizes a Domain-Specific Language (DSL) for Verification Feedback Generation. Every Feedback instance within the SenseAct framework strictly
adheres to a structured format designed to capture the causal relationship between agent actions and
observable UI state transitions. This representation ensures that replanning is grounded in verifiable
evidence rather than free-form linguistic reflection:
• .Scope(Context):: Defines the functional area or specific page (e.g., ”Alarm Settings”)
where the interaction occurs.
• .State(UIState):: Specifies the static pre-condition, representing the UI state that must
exist prior to the action, using abstract roles (e.g., ”search icon”, ”editable text field”).
• Prereq(Dependency) : Details dynamic pre-conditions, including historical dependencies (e.g., ”User Logged In”) or the confirmed existence of specific UI elements.
• Action(Input): The core ”Pivot Action” or control unit executed by the agent to trigger a
state transition.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
High-level intent g
SCG-induced typed control unit ut
Type τ(ut) ∈T
Semantic control contract
Expected transition class ∆τ(ut)
Execute ut and observe
symbolic transition δt : st →st+1
Programmatic verification
φτ(ut)(δt; ∆τ(ut))
∈{success, failure, ⊥}
Contract violation
or ambiguity
Visual ambiguity
(VLM fallback)
,
Figure 2: Contract-driven execution verification. A typed control unit induced by the Structured
Control Graph (SCG) declares a type-indexed semantic contract ∆τ before execution. Observed
symbolic state transitions are programmatically verified against this contract via φτ, grounding execution correctness in explicit control semantics rather than language-based self-judgment.
• Effect(Delta) : The observed outcome following execution, including symbolic state
deltas (Dt), UI transitions (e.g., NEWPAGEJUMP), or error feedback.
• Confidence(Level) : A causal certainty score—High for explicit causality (e.g., programmatic success) or Low for inferred or black-box behaviors where visual reasoning may be
required.
B
PROMPTING AND TEMPLATES
Prompt 1: Intent Planner fontupper
Role. You are an Intent Planner for a mobile GUI agent. Given the global task, execution
history, and the current UI state, you must generate exactly one next intent that is achievable
from the current UI screen, together with an expectation describing observable UI evidence
after execution.
You do not output low-level actions (e.g., tap, click, scroll).
Inputs. The planner receives four inputs: (1) a natural language description of the global task;
(2) an intent history recording previously attempted screen-scoped intents and their execution
outcomes; (3) UI functional groups extracted from the current screen, where each group contains typed UI elements with identifiers and visible attributes; and (4) weak execution insights
summarizing recent UI changes, verification results, and missing information.
Screen Scope and State Identity. Each intent must be strictly scoped to the current UI screen.
The resulting UI state may navigate to a different screen, but the intent itself must describe a
capability available on the current screen.
The notion of same UI state refers to the same screen surface (e.g., same page/activity with
similar visible structure or key texts). If exact state identity is unavailable, intent history should
be treated as weak but mandatory guidance for avoiding repetition.
Intent Progression and Anti-Repeat. Intent history must be used to avoid repeating intents
of the same semantic type (e.g., SEARCH, FILTER, OPEN SEARCH) on the same UI state
when such attempts did not produce new evidence or state changes. If repetition is detected, the
planner must change strategy (e.g., CREATE, ADD, or NAVIGATE), or terminate exploration
if no capability remains.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Capability Priority. When multiple high-level UI entries are available, the planner must select
the option that most directly satisfies the global task. In ambiguous cases, per-item or per-entry
views are preferred over global summaries.
If required intent values are not explicitly confirmed on the current UI, the planner must prefer
evidence-surfacing or navigation intents over terminal or commit-like intents. This prioritization is internal and must not be exposed in the output.
Search Constraints (Hard Rule). Search is treated as a secondary capability. A search intent
may be generated only when there is explicit evidence that searchable target items already exist
on the current UI (e.g., a visible list/grid of items, visible text indicating existing entries, or prior
successful creation inferred from insights).
If no such evidence exists, the planner must not generate a search intent and must instead prefer:
(1) CREATE / ADD a new entry, (2) OPEN a page or section that enables creation, or (3)
NAVIGATE to an appropriate entry-point page.
This rule overrides keyword matching in the task description.
Use of Insights. Execution insights provide weak but mandatory evidence for decision making.
The planner must use insights to: (i) determine whether the previous intent caused a UI change,
(ii) identify missing required entities or values, and (iii) decide whether to continue exploration
or terminate planning. Insights must not be ignored when determining FINISH or continuation.
Expectation Specification. Each intent must be accompanied by an expectation that specifies
verifiable UI evidence observable after execution. Expectations describe only newly introduced
or changed UI elements and must not rely on UI facts already visible before execution.
Output Format. The output must be a single JSON object with exactly two fields: intent
and expectation. The expectation is defined as a logical composition (AND / OR) of one or
more atomic UI conditions using predefined UI check types. Any deviation from this structure
is considered invalid.
Prompt 2: SCG-Plan
Role (HARD). You are a strict SCG-Hint Verifier for a mobile GUI agent. Your only responsibility is to
decide whether exploration on the current UI surface should STOP or CONTINUE. You must not judge
task success, correctness, or generate actions.
Core Semantics (HARD). FINISH is not a success signal. It only indicates that the current exploration
context is closed and the executor should stop acting on this UI surface. A STOP decision must explicitly
recommend FINISH as the next step. A CONTINUE decision must not recommend FINISH.
Inputs (HARD). You receive: (1) the current intent, (2) the post-action UI state (compressed XML / LLM
tree), (3) the executed action trace (with bounds if available), and (4) a program-generated state delta
summary. You must base decisions only on these inputs. You may not invent UI elements, states, actions,
or values.
Surface Definition (HARD). A “UI surface” is the current interaction context (screen, dialog, sheet, permission prompt, or overlay). The surface is considered the same if the visible structure and key affordances
remain consistent per the delta summary (e.g., same title/header region, same primary widgets, no context
switch signals).
Editable vs. Sealed (HARD). A surface is editable if any editing affordances exist, including any of:
text inputs, toggles, add/edit/delete buttons, selection controls, or any widget with executable actions.
A surface is sealed only if it is clearly read-only (e.g., confirmation/receipt/summary) and no editing
affordances remain. When uncertain, default to editable.
Required Values (HARD). Any concrete user-specified value mentioned in the intent is a required value.
A value is considered present only if it appears as actual content in the current UI state (not just as a label,
hint, or placeholder). Value presence alone is insufficient to STOP if the surface remains editable.
Global Decision Gate (MUST RUN FIRST). Decide STOP if any of the following holds:
[leftmargin=1.2em]
1. Context Switch: the UI surface changed (new screen/dialog/sheet), or a new interaction context
is reached (per delta summary or clear structural shift).
2. Commit →Sealed: a commit-like action (e.g., Save/Done/Confirm/Apply/Join) was executed
and the resulting surface is sealed (non-editable).
3. Exhaustion on Same Surface: exploration on the same surface is exhausted: repeated interactions produce no observable UI delta and no further evidence can be surfaced.
Otherwise, decide CONTINUE.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
No-Effect Exhaustion (HARD, BOUNDS-BASED). If the trace shows repeated interactions targeting
the same UI region (high overlap in bounds, e.g., overlap ≥0.85) and the delta summary indicates no UI
change, this constitutes a strong no-effect signal.
[leftmargin=1.2em]
• If the surface is sealed/non-editable, this no-effect signal triggers STOP.
• If the surface is editable, you must CONTINUE but mark progress="stuck" and require
a strategy change, rather than repeating the same interaction region.
Verifier–Executor Responsibility Split (HARD). The verifier decides whether exploration should STOP
or CONTINUE. Concrete termination actions (e.g., same-bounds FINISH rules) are enforced by the downstream executor and planner.
Stop vs. Continue Invariants (HARD).
[leftmargin=1.2em]
• You must never output finish ok=true. Always output finish ok=false.
• STOP must include an explicit instruction that the next step should FINISH.
• CONTINUE must include at least one evidence-based reason indicating why further exploration
is still possible.
Output Format (STRICT). Output exactly one JSON object:
{
"decision": "STOP" | "CONTINUE",
"finish_ok": false,
"progress": "progressing" | "stuck" | "unknown",
"reason": {
"rule": "<triggered_rule_id>",
"summary": "<short evidence-based explanation>",
"evidence": {
"surface_same": true|false,
"surface_editable": true|false,
"delta": "<quoted or paraphrased delta summary>",
"repeated_bounds": true|false,
"required_values_present": [ ... ],
"required_values_missing": [ ... ]
},
"next_step": "FINISH" | "CONTINUE_EXPLORATION"
}
}
Prompt 3: Verify
Role. You are a strict SCG-Hint Verifier for a mobile GUI agent. Your only responsibility is to decide
whether exploration on the current UI surface should STOP or CONTINUE. You do not decide task
success and do not judge correctness.
Stop/Continue Semantics. STOP means the next UIDAG construction round should output a FINISHonly UIDAG. CONTINUE means the system should attempt another SCG step on the same UI surface.
FINISH is not a success signal; it only closes the current exploration context.
Exploration must continue as long as the UI surface is unchanged and (i) additional evidence can still be
surfaced, or (ii) required intent values are unconfirmed, or (iii) the context remains editable. Exploration
must stop only when a surface/context boundary is reached, or the surface is sealed (read-only/committed),
or exploration is exhausted.
Inputs (must rely only on these).
• INTENT: the intent to verify.
• COMPRESSED XML AFTER ACTION: current UI state after the last action.
• ACTION TRACE: executed actions so far.
• STATE DELTA: program-generated UI delta summary.
• Optional: VERIFY CHECKED, VERIFY OPERATOR, VERIFY PASSED.
You must not invent UI states, elements, or actions.
Global Output Constraints (absolute).
• Always output finish ok = false.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
• Never output success = "SUCCESS".
• If you decide STOP, reason.evidence must include the exact substring: "Next step
should FINISH".
Helpers:
Required Values.
Extract REQUIRED VALUES from INTENT (user-provided concrete
strings/numbers/emails).
Define VALUE PRESENT(v) to be true iff v appears as actual content in
COMPRESSED XML AFTER ACTION (labels/placeholders do not count). Case-insensitive match is allowed; phone numbers ignore spaces/hyphens.
Helpers: Editability and Sealing (hard repair). Value presence alone is not sufficient to stop. If the UI
is still editable (any edit affordance exists), you must continue.
Define EDITING ACTIVE true iff any holds:
(A) focused input / caret / recent typing context;
or (B) editable affordances exist, including:
keywords in text/content-desc/resource-id (e.g., edit/-
modify/change/add/remove/delete/clear/new/create), or input-like widgets (EditText/TextInput/AutoComplete/Spinner/CheckBox/Switch/SeekBar). If EDITING ACTIVE is true, the surface is not sealed.
Define READ ONLY SURFACE HINT true iff the UI resembles a summary/review page (no input widgets)
and lacks edit controls, or STATE DELTA indicates a commit led to a non-editable page. If unsure, default
to EDITING ACTIVE=true (continue).
Stop Types.
STOP has two meanings:
STOP-A (sealed evidence on current surface:
readonly/summary/committed and not editable) and STOP-B (context boundary reached: surface switched/-
closed/exhausted).
Both must use reason.category="other" and include "Next step
should FINISH".
Decision Logic (strict order).
1. Surface Change / Boundary [STOP-B]: if STATE DELTA.new surface=true or
dismissed surface=true, or a modal/dialog/picker appears, or navigation to a different
page is implied, then STOP-B.
2. Blockers
[force
CONTINUE]:
if
a
permission
dialog
/
blocking
popup
/
errortoast
is
indicated
by
STATE DELTA
or
UI
evidence,
then
CONTINUE
with
reason.category="blocked by surface".
3. Sealed by Value + Read-only [STOP-A]: if all REQUIRED VALUES are present,
EDITING ACTIVE=false, READ ONLY SURFACE HINT=true, and no blocker/error,
then STOP-A.
4. Commit closes context [STOP-B]: define COMMIT ACTION as last action implying Save/-
Done/OK/Apply/Confirm (case-insensitive).
If COMMIT ACTION=true and no blocker/error and any of:
(new surface / dismissed surface / screen changed /
READ ONLY SURFACE HINT) holds, then STOP-B. If commit happened but the UI still looks
editable, CONTINUE.
5. Partial / Not Sealed [CONTINUE]: if some required values are missing, or all are present
but EDITING ACTIVE=true, or read-only is not clearly true, then CONTINUE with
reason.category="info missing".
6. No-effect [CONTINUE]: if the surface did not change and STATE DELTA indicates
no
meaningful
text/value/selection
changes
and
no
blocker,
then
CONTINUE
with
reason.category="no effect".
7. Bounds-repeat Guard [hard]: define REPEAT REGION if the last two interaction actions target
the same region (bounds overlap ≥0.85), and DELTA EMPTY if STATE DELTA shows no
surface change and no changes. If REPEAT REGION && DELTA EMPTY:
• if EDITING ACTIVE=false or READ ONLY SURFACE HINT=true, then STOP-B.
• else (still editable), CONTINUE but set no repeat=true to force a different strategy
next round.
8. Default [CONTINUE]: otherwise CONTINUE (insufficient evidence).
Delta Summary Filling. Populate delta summary from STATE DELTA when available; if missing,
set booleans to null and lists to [].
Final Output Format (strict JSON). Output exactly one JSON object:
{
"success": "FAILURE" | "UNCERTAIN",
"progress": "PROGRESSED" | "NO_CHANGE" | "REGRESSED" | "UNKNOWN",
"finish_ok": false,
"no_repeat": true | false,
"delta_summary": {
"screen_changed": true | false | null,
"new_surface": true | false | null,

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
"dismissed_surface": true | false | null,
"text_changes": [string, ...],
"value_changes": [string, ...],
"selection_changes": [string, ...],
"errors_or_blocks": [string, ...]
},
"reason": {
"category": "info_missing" | "no_effect" | "wrong_target" |
"wrong_order" | "intent_mismatch" |
"ambiguous_expectations" | "blocked_by_surface" |
"other",
"evidence": [string, ...]
}
}
No markdown. No extra keys. JSON only.
C
DETAILS OF DATASETS
Table 4: Per-application task success rates (%) on DroidTask and AndroidLab.
DROIDTASK
APP
CORE
SENSEACT
(GPT-4O + GEMMA 2-9B)
(GPT-4O LLM-ONLY)
GALLERY
90.0
88.9
CONTACTS
84.0
50.0
NOTES
58.5
57.1
CALENDAR
71.0
76.5
APP LAUNCHER
79.8
100.0
FILE MANAGER
42.5
68.8
CAMERA
68.0
46.7
VOICE RECORDER
68.0
72.7
CLOCK
82.0
84.6
DIALER
74.0
40.0
SMS MESSENGER
68.0
46.7
MUSIC PLAYER
68.0
87.5
AVERAGE
69.23
68.53
ANDROIDLAB
APP
CORE
SENSEACT
(GPT-4O + QWEN 2.5-7B)
(GPT-4O LLM-ONLY)
BLUECOINS
30.0
40.0
CALENDAR
37.4
21.4
CANTOOK
17.5
50.0
CLOCK
39.5
55.5
CONTACTS
38.4
53.3
MAP
60.5
40.0
PIMUSIC
17.5
33.3
SETTING
64.6
69.6
ZOOM
80.0
80.0
AVERAGE
41.84
49.28
Per-Application Analysis.
Table 4 reports per-application task success rates on DroidTask and
AndroidLab. On DroidTask, SenseAct does not uniformly outperform CORE across all applications.
Instead, it achieves higher success rates on applications such as App Launcher, File Manager, Music
Player, and Calendar, while underperforming on others including Contacts, Dialer, and Camera. As
a result, the overall average success rate of SenseAct on DroidTask remains comparable to CORE,
reflecting a trade-off between gains and losses across different application types.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
On AndroidLab, SenseAct improves task success on the majority of applications, including Cantook, Clock, Contacts, PiMusic, and Settings, leading to a higher overall average success rate. Performance remains comparable on visually intensive applications such as Zoom, indicating that reducing visual perception does not degrade performance in these cases. These per-application results
explain the aggregate trends observed in Table 2 and highlight that SenseAct’s improvements are
driven by consistent gains across a broad subset of AndroidLab applications rather than isolated
outliers.