NESYPROACT: PROACTIVE NEURAL-SYMBOLIC CONTROL FOR WEB AGENTS
Anonymous authors
Paper under double-blind review
ABSTRACT
Web-based language agents operate under severe partial observability, where the
semantic divergence between internal state assumptions and the ground-truth environment is often unobservable. Consequently, agents frequently maintain high-level
reasoning coherence over misgrounded states, causing errors to compound as subsequent decisions are conditioned on silently invalidated premises. We present
NesyProAct, a proactive neural-symbolic agentic decision framework that transforms conventional ReAct-style web agents from reactive prompting pipelines into
execution-aware decision processes. NesyProAct exposes a typed symbolic decision interface over states, actions, transitions, and subgoals, enabling LLM-based
agents to automatically compose and reason over execution semantics across decision hierarchies. From this interface, programmatic verification logic is synthesized
online to evaluate step-level executability and progress, with verification outcomes
directly regulating decision evolution through targeted grounding interventions. As
a result, execution feedback is integrated into planning itself, allowing agents to
maintain semantic alignment under partial observability rather than propagating
unverified assumptions. On WebArena, NesyProAct achieves a 17.8% overall
improvement over strong skill-induction agentic web framework ASI across six
domains. NesyProAct also achieves noticeable performance when reasoning with
small models GPT-4o-mini, with 5.1% gain over ASI with Claude-3.5.
INTRODUCTION
Web agents operate in partially observable environments governed by latent human-centric interface
rules where complex tasks emerge as sequences of interactive transitions Zheng et al. (2025); Wang
et al. (2025a). To succeed, these agents must bridge the abstraction gap between high-level cognitive
reasoning, defined by the decomposition of goals into subgoals, and low-level action execution,
characterized by discrete UI interactions Zhou et al. (2024b); Deng et al. (2024). Modern architectures
typically delegate this coupling to Large Language Models (LLMs) that must interpret sparse interface
feedback to synthesize concrete actions. However, because agents rely on indirect environmental
signals, their performance is inherently sensitive to the alignment between latent intent and physical
execution.
Most state-of-the-art web agents adopt the ReAct-style framework, alternating between reasoning
steps and interface actions Yao et al. (2023). While this enables forward-looking planning without
explicit environment modeling, it introduces a critical ”hallucination” in the decision process: agents
often assume that once an action is issued, its intended semantic effect is successfully realized. This
optimistic execution bias causes the agent’s internal state to advance based on assumed outcomes
rather than the actual interaction history, leading to catastrophic error propagation when the UI drifts
or actions fail Xue et al. (2025); Zhu et al. (2025).
These failures reflect a fundamental divergence between the agent’s internal decision state and the interaction state induced by execution. When such discrepancies remain undetected, the agent continues
to plan and act under invalid assumptions, thereby compounding errors across subsequent decisions.
Execution verification offers a principled mechanism to constrain this drift by checking whether
intended semantic effects have occurred before the decision state advances. In web environments,
grounding conditions are difficult to formalize or observe directly because task-relevant semantics
are implicit and only partially revealed through interface feedback. Consequently, many systems rely

on language-model-based evaluators to judge execution success post hoc, which effectively reduces
verification to another inference problem Xue et al. (2025); Zhu et al. (2025). This LLM-as-judge
pattern remains reactive and introduces additional uncertainty, cost, and latency.
These observations motivate a paradigm shift in how grounding is modeled within web agent
decision making. Rather than treating grounding as a mere perception artifact or a byproduct of
improved prompting, execution correctness must be internalized as an explicit decision variable that
dictates the trajectory of interaction over time. We introduce NesyProAct, a neural symbolic control
paradigm that restructures the agent’s decision space so that execution assumptions become explicit,
inspectable, and actionable. NesyProAct represents agent decisions through symbolic interfaces over
state conditions, typed actions, expected transitions, and task decomposition constraints, thereby
exposing the latent execution semantics that govern web interaction.
From this structured representation, NesyProAct automatically synthesizes programmatic verification functions that check both executability and step level semantic progress. Verification outcomes
serve as decision shaping signals: detected violations trigger targeted grounding actions that repair
execution or acquire missing information before the decision state advances. In this framework,
neural components absorb perceptual uncertainty and reference ambiguity from web observations
while symbolic structures enforce verification, diagnosis, and control. This architecture replaces
brittle heuristics with a verifiable execution loop where the agent maintains a provable alignment
with the environmental state.
By generalizing over verifiable decision structures and repair operators rather than replaying fragile
action scripts, NesyProAct yields substantially more robust behavior under realistic UI drift and
partial observability. More broadly, it reframes web interaction as a semantics aware control problem,
providing a principled foundation for proactive, verifiable agent behavior in complex environments.
Overall, the contributions of this paper are three-fold:
• We formally define the Proactive Neural-Symbolic Agentic Decision Process (PNSDP),
which characterizes agentic web interaction as a decision process where execution semantics,
verification, and grounding are explicit components of the transition dynamics under partial
observability.
• We introduce NesyProAct, an instantiation of PNSDP that automatically synthesizes programmatic verification logic from typed symbolic decision interfaces and induces reusable
execution-level skills as verification-governed symbolic programs, enabling structured,
hierarchy-aware control over web interactions.
• We demonstrate that NesyProAct substantially improves robustness and generalization on
challenging web-agent benchmarks, achieving a 17.8% absolute improvement over strong
skill-based baselines on WebArena across six domains under realistic UI drift.
RELATED WORKS
Web Agent
Autonomous web agents have advanced rapidly with the emergence of realistic, highstakes benchmarks that expose agents to long-horizon, failure-sensitive interactions (Zhou et al.,
2024a; Deng et al., 2024; Drouin et al., 2024). Alongside these benchmarks, a diverse set of
architectural paradigms has been explored, including ReAct-style interleaved reasoning and action
(Yao et al., 2023), reinforcement learning for direct policy optimization (Qi et al., 2025; Yang et al.,
2025), and hierarchical planning frameworks that decompose complex objectives into manageable
subgoals (Zhang et al., 2025; Erdogan et al., 2025). More recently, trajectory synthesis and datadriven curriculum approaches have been proposed to improve generalization by training agents on
diverse interaction traces and counterfactual behaviors (Ou et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2025; Murty et al.,
2024a). Together, these efforts have significantly improved benchmark scores and broadened the
scope of tasks that web agents can attempt. However, these gains predominantly operate at the level of
reasoning, planning, or data coverage, implicitly assuming that execution faithfully realizes intended
action semantics.
Despite this progress, the reliability of autonomous web agents remains a critical bottleneck, particularly in settings that require sustained interaction under partial observability. Recent analyses
have shown that apparent performance improvements can be brittle, with agents exhibiting abrupt

failure modes as task horizon increases or interface dynamics shift (Xue et al., 2025; Zhu et al.,
2025). Such failures are not primarily caused by insufficient reasoning capacity, but by a lack of
execution grounding: agents often fail to detect subtle but consequential changes in the environment
that invalidate previously assumed state transitions. As a result, agents continue to plan and act under
misaligned internal states, leading to compounding errors that are difficult to recover from. This
limitation has been observed across reasoning-based agents, reinforcement-learning-based systems,
and hybrid architectures alike (Qi et al., 2025; Zhang et al., 2025; Yang et al., 2025), suggesting that
execution grounding represents a structural challenge rather than an algorithm-specific deficiency.
Skill Induction
Building on advances in program synthesis (Ellis et al., 2023; Grand et al., 2024)
and embodied skill learning (Wang et al., 2023), recent web agents increasingly induce reusable
skills to manage long-horizon interaction. Early systems such as AWM (Wang et al., 2025b) abstract
interaction trajectories into reusable workflows, while ASI (Wang et al., 2025a) formalizes skills as
executable Python functions that can be invoked compositionally. More recent approaches, including
SkillWeaver (Zheng et al., 2025) and PolySkill (Yu et al., 2025), emphasize cross-site generalization
by leveraging guided exploration (Murty et al., 2024b), experience replay (Liu et al., 2025), and
tool construction mechanisms (Cai et al., 2024). Collectively, these methods demonstrate that skill
induction can substantially reduce planning depth and improve sample efficiency by amortizing
interaction patterns across tasks and environments.
However, existing induced skills are typically represented as raw executable code or action scripts,
inheriting the same execution fragility as low-level policies. While TroVE (Wang et al., 2024)
introduces verification during the induction phase, execution-time correctness remains largely implicit,
with no mechanism to detect or repair semantic violations once a skill is deployed. As a result, induced
skills provide reuse but not reliability: they can fail silently when preconditions are violated or when
environmental dynamics deviate from training traces. In contrast, NESYPROACT induces neurosymbolic skills with explicit preconditions and postconditions, enabling programmatic verification
at runtime and targeted repair when execution assumptions break. This shifts skill induction from
code reuse toward verifiable decision abstractions, aligning skill execution with the agent’s grounding
and control loop rather than treating it as an open-loop procedure.NesyProAct induces verifiable
neuro-symbolic skills with explicit preconditions/postconditions enabling programmatic verification
and targeted repair.
Proactive LLM Agents
Long-horizon tasks require belief-state alignment (Shen et al., 2025),
which has been addressed through mechanisms such as introspection (Qu et al., 2024), hierarchical
memory (Hu et al., 2024), and external memory systems (Chhikara et al., 2025; Fang et al., 2025;
Ouyang et al., 2025; Sarch et al., 2024). While these approaches improve temporal coherence, they
primarily operate at the level of internal reasoning state and do not directly constrain execution
semantics. PAE (Zhou et al., 2024b) introduces LLM-based evaluators for post-hoc judgment, but
this design incurs additional computational overhead, stochastic uncertainty, and intervenes only
after execution errors have already propagated. More broadly, such evaluator-based agents treat
verification as a secondary inference problem rather than a control signal that shapes decision flow.
For verification, NesyProAct supplements the stochastic LLM-based evaluators with deterministic
symbolic verifiers that operate directly on execution conditions. Verification results are injected into
the decision process as control constraints, shaping which actions and skill transitions are admissible
at each step. This converts proactive agent behavior from post-hoc reflection into execution-time
regulation, preventing belief-state drift from propagating across long-horizon interactions.
NESYPROACT: PROACTIVE WEB AGENT WITH NEURAL-SYMBOLIC
GROUNDING
In this section, we reformulate agentic decision making for web interaction from a prompt-and-act,
largely reactive pipeline into a verification-driven, proactive grounding-in-the-loop process, where
each step is selected under explicit executability conditions and checked for semantic progress after
execution. To this end, we introduce NesyProAct, which is built around four tightly coupled components: (1) a neural-symbolic decision-making interface that converts raw UI observations into
compact grounded semantic predicates, defining the agent’s effective decision space; (2) typed,
predicate-grounded action operators defined directly over this space, with explicit preconditions

ASI Skill Example
def search_product(search_box_id: str, query: str):
    """
    Examples:
        search_product('595', 'sony bluetooth 
headphones')
    """
    click(search_box_id)
    fill(search_box_id, query)
    keyboard_press('Enter')
def navigate_category(dropdown_id: str, category_id: 
str):
    """
    Navigate to a product category by first clicking
    a dropdown menu.
    Examples:
        navigate_category('5', '76')
    """
    click(dropdown_id)
    click(category_id)
Nesy Skill with Proactive Grounding
Skill ω: SearchItem(keyword)
Iω(s): # initiation
  LoggedIn(s) ∧ AtHome(s)
cω:
  1) TYPE(keyword) # typed action
     target q1(e): # grounding query
       Role(e)=textbox ∧ (Name(e)≈"Search" ∨ Placeholder(e)≈"Search")
       ∧ Visible(e;s) ∧ Enabled(e;s) ∧ Unoccluded(e;s)
     assert ψ1(s,s’): # invariant verifier
       ∃e: q1(e) ∧ Value(e) Contains keyword
  2) CLICK # typed action
     target q2(e): # grounding query
       Role(e)=button ∧ (Name(e)≈"Search" ∨ Name(e)≈"Go")
       ∧ Visible(e;s) ∧ Enabled(e;s) ∧ Unoccluded(e;s)
     assert ψ2(s,s’): # invariant verifier
       ∃card: Role(card)== "ListItem" ∧ Name(card) contains keyword
βω(s): # termination
     same as action 2 verifier
Pre-condition Check
Target Grounding
Post-action Verifier
Post-condition Check
Easily orchestrated 
skill with unified Nesy 
interface
Condition-based Skill 
Reuse
On-the-fly Verification
LLM-free Element 
Targeting
Figure 1: Comparison between ASI and NeSy-based skill induction. Left: Conventional Agent
Skill Induction (ASI) treats skills as opaque executable code sequences, implicitly assuming that
execution faithfully realizes the intended semantics. As a result, grounding and execution correctness
are neither represented nor verified, leading to brittle behavior and poor generalization under environmental variation. Right: In contrast, the proposed NeSy (neuro-symbolic) interface represents
skills as structured decision objects with explicit execution semantics, including typed actions,
grounding queries, pre-condition constraints, post-action invariants, and termination criteria.
This representation enables an active grounding-and-verification loop in which execution outcomes
directly shape control decisions, enforcing step-wise semantic correctness and yielding robust, compositional, and reusable skills.
and expected semantic effects that constrain both planning and execution; (3) a programmatic
verification process that automatically synthesizes executable symbolic verification codes from
these predicates and action semantics to validate preconditions and post-action effects, producing
structured failure signatures that trigger proactive grounding and minimal repair; and (4) a skill distillation mechanism that packages successful programs into reusable skills with built-in verification
contracts, so skill execution is governed by the same generated checkers, improving reliability and
sample efficiency by replacing most evaluation-time LLM-as-judge calls with deterministic checks.
3.1
PROACTIVE NEURAL-SYMBOLIC DECISION PROCESS
We formalize NesyProAct as a Proactive Neural-Symbolic Agentic Decision Process (PNSDP),
which models web interaction as a partially observable, hierarchical decision-making problem over
typed, verifiable symbolic semantics. By exposing a structured symbolic interface, this novel
proactive grounding framework enables environmental feedback to be systematically integrated into
agent’s planning trajectory, so execution can be continuously shaped and corrected within the decision
process.
Definition 3.1 (Proactive Neural-Symbolic Agentic Decision Process (PNSDP)). A PNSDP is a
hierarchical decision-making framework defined by the tuple:
MPNSDP = ⟨S, A, O, G, TΦ, Φ, V, Ω⟩
(1)
where the operators and spaces are defined as:
• S and A denote the latent environment state space and the space of primitive interaction actions,
with environment dynamics governed by the transition function T : S × A →S.
• O denotes the observation space corresponding to partial UI feedback available after action
execution.
• G denotes the subgoal space, where a task specification is decomposed into an ordered set of
subgoals that guide high-level planning.
• Φ is a hierarchical symbolic predicate space that defines the agent’s internal semantic decision
interface over states, actions, transitions, and subgoals.
• V : Φ × A × O →C is the programmatic verification operator that evaluates whether the
symbolic effects for an executed action are satisfied.

• Ωdenotes the space of grounding and repair operators, corresponding to information-seeking or
corrective subgoal actions invoked upon verification outcomes.
• TΦ : Φ × (A ∪Ω) × C →Φ defines the symbolic transition dynamics, specifying how the agent’s
state evolves as a function of primitive actions, groundings, and verification outcomes.
Hierarchical Symbolic Predicate Space.
The symbolic decision space Φ is structured as a hierarchical predicate library:
Φ =
[
ℓ∈L
Φ(ℓ),
L = {LA, LS, LT , LG},
(2)
where each level Φ(ℓ) captures semantic constraints at a distinct abstraction level of agentic decision making at the levels of state (LS), action (LA), transition (LT ), and subgoal
decomposition (LG). This hierarchical organization exposes execution semantics at multiple
abstraction levels, enabling errors to be detected, localized, and corrected proactively by the agent at
the appropriate semantic layer.
Each atomic predicate ϕ(ℓ) ∈Φ(ℓ) is defined as a grounded evaluation function:
ϕ(ℓ)(X) = fϕ(ℓ)(X),
X ∈scope(ϕ(ℓ)), X ∼Xϕ(ℓ),
(3)
mapping valid inputs to a finite grounding space Ω(ℓ)
g . Here, scope(ϕ(ℓ)) specifies the admissible
domain of the predicate (e.g., UI elements, partial observations, action traces, or subplans), while
Xϕ(ℓ) constrains the input schema through typing and attribute availability. The grounding space Ω(ℓ)
g
is typically discrete or boolean-valued and supports programmatic verification.
Verification and Proactive Grounding.
NesyProAct synthesizes programmatic verification logic
from typed predicates ϕ(ℓ) ∈Φ(ℓ), instantiating execution-relevant constraints into checks whose
outcomes directly condition the symbolic transition dynamics. When violations are detected, the
grounding operator G intervenes at the corresponding abstraction level to revise symbolic bindings or repair subgoal structure, making execution semantics explicit control objects under partial
observability.
Symbolic Skill Induction.
NesyProAct defines skills as reusable execution-level abstractions
induced from repeated subgoal execution, represented as temporally extended symbolic programs
over Φ. Governed by verification-conditioned symbolic transitions, skills remain subject to grounding
and verification in the same manner as primitive actions. As a result, skill execution is adaptive to
execution context and semantic drift, rather than being bound to rigid action sequences, enabling
systematic reuse and generalization across tasks and environments.
3.2
MULTI-LEVEL PROGRAMMATIC SYMBOLIC GROUNDING
NesyProAct introduces a structured symbolic interface that organizes grounding semantics into layered atomic predicates with increasing levels of abstraction. This hierarchy provides the foundational
grounding substrate for perception, verification, and proactive control by partitioning the dense
observation space into discrete, verifiable components.
We instantiate this grounding structure through four distinct semantic layers:
Action-Level Predicates.
Action-level predicates ϕ ∈ΦLA characterize the agent’s actionconditioned belief over a grounded UI element by reading the element together with its local context.
Concretely, each predicate takes as input a typed action (e.g., click, type, select option)
and a typed element instance augmented with context (e.g., MenuItem, Button, InputBox plus
nearby text, hierarchy, and visual cues), and outputs a crafted attribute belief relevant to that action,
such as disabled() for click feasibility or filled() for type readiness.
ϕLA := ⟨Etyped, context⟩× Atyped →attr
(4)

Methods
LLM Backbone
Domain
Avg.
Shopping
Admin
Reddit
GitLab
Map
Cross
Single-Agent Systems
WebRL Qi et al. (2025)
Llama-3.1-70B
44.4
54.3
78.9
50.0
40.0
–
49.1
AgentOccam Yang et al. (2025)
GPT-4-Turbo
40.6
45.6
61.3
37.8
46.8
14.6
43.1
AgentOccam + JUDGEYang et al. (2025)
GPT-4-Turbo
43.3
46.2
67.0
38.9
52.3
16.7
45.7
Multi-Agent Systems
WebPilot Zhang et al. (2025)
GPT-3.5
25.1
22.0
58.5
30.0
30.3
–
29.1
WebPilot Zhang et al. (2025)
GPT-4o
36.9
24.7
65.1
39.4
33.9
–
37.2
Web Agentic Systems with Skill Induction
AWM Wang et al. (2025b)
GPT-4
30.8
29.1
50.9
31.8
43.3
–
35.5
SkillWeaver Zheng et al. (2025)
GPT-4o
27.2
25.8
50.0
22.2
33.9
–
29.8
ASI Wang et al. (2025a)
Claude-3.5-Sonnet
40.1
44.0
54.7
32.2
43.1
20.8
40.4
Proactive Agentic Systems (Ours)
NesyProAct (Ours)
GPT-4o-mini
40.6
35.8
72.5
50.5
34.7
22.9
45.5
GPT-4o
58.1
47.6
85.8
56.7
55.0
41.7
58.2
Table 1: Performance comparison across web interaction domains, grouped by agentic framework category. Across all evaluated domains, NESYPROACT consistently outperforms strong skill-inductionbased systems, ASI, SkillWeawver and AWM with considerable stability. On Reddit, it outperforms
ASI by 31.1%. These results suggest that explicitly modeling grounding and execution verification
as part of the decision process yields robustness gains that are not achievable by scaling language
models, adding agents, or inducing skills alone.
State-Level Predicates.
State-level predicates ϕ ∈ΦLS operate on the current UI observation (or
a scoped part of it, e.g., an accessibility subtree) and perform action-conditioned element retrieval.
Concretely, each predicate takes as input (i) an observation ot or ot|sub, (ii) a typed action, and
(iii) the action’s parameter-targeting queries expressed as judgements over crafted attributes, and
outputs a series of focused elements that fit these queries, each paired with its local context required
for downstream grounding and verification (e.g., visible labels, placeholders, ancestor traces, and
neighborhood cues).
ϕLS := O × ⟨Atyped, params⟩→{Etyped ⊕context}
(5)
Transition-Level Predicates.
Transition-level predicates ϕ ∈ΦLT take as input a transition intent,
which is an explicit expectation of the post-transition state after leaving the current page, together
with the current observation (starting page). Rather than validating a given plan, these predicates
synthesize feasible action sequences that can induce the intended transition, by enforcing interaction feasibility and causal consistency under explicit semantic constraints, and outputting candidate
typed action sequences with targeting queries based on attributes (e.g., disabled()=False,
filled()=True) instantiated from the focused elements.
ϕLT := intent × O →{Atyped ⊕params}
(6)
Decomposition-Level Predicates.
Decomposition-level predicates ϕ ∈ΦLD determine subtask
granularity and dependencies by mapping the initial observation, the target objective, and the available
typed action space to a structured decomposition. Concretely, each predicate takes (oinit, obj, Atyped)
as input and outputs a series of subtask intents together with their dependency relations (e.g.,
precedence constraints and optional branches), forming an intent sequence that specifies what to
achieve next and what must be satisfied before advancing.
ϕLG := obj × Oinit × Atyped →{intent}
(7)
Autonomous Program Composition.
On the basis of the hierarchical atomic predicate library, the
agent compiles logical programs which regulate the agent’s belief transition in a structured symbolic
space. Appendix A.4 illustrates an example of a subtask with the intent ”search for cameras”.

3.3
PROACTIVE GROUNDING-IN-THE-LOOP DECISION MAKING
We embed grounding into the policy loop: the agent first grounds observations into focused signals,
then makes decisions conditioned on those grounding results. We adopt a four layer pipeline: decomposition plans subtasks, transition orchestrates skills, state performs skill-conditioned perception
and verification, and action executes UI actions. Critically, each upper layer directly conditions the
next; for example, the chosen skill orchestration determines what the agent perceives and verifies at
the state layer, which then constrains the feasible actions. A.3 shows an algorithmic demonstration
of NesyProAct’s grounding and decision-making pipeline.
We model the interaction as a POMDP with latent states st ∈S, primitive actions at ∈Ap, and
observations ot from observation space Ωunder the observation mapping O:
st+1 ∼T (· | st, at),
ot ∼O(· | st),
ot ∈Ω.
(8)
This formulation emphasizes that the agent never directly observes the true state, and must instead
rely on grounding mechanisms to extract decision-relevant structure from observations.
Let ℓ∈{ACTION, STATE, TRANSITION, DECOMPOSITION} index layers from inner to outer. Each
layer ℓconsists of a symbolic predicate library P(ℓ), a neural grounding module g(ℓ)
ϕ , a grounding
observation space Ω(ℓ)
g , a decision-making policy π(ℓ)
θ , and a decision space D(ℓ). Denote the decision
at layer ℓand time t by d(ℓ)
t
∈D(ℓ), where the innermost layer outputs the primitive POMDP action:
at ≜d(ACTION)
t
∈Ap.
(9)
Each layer operates conditioned on the decision from the direct upper layer d(ℓ+1)
t
. First, the
neural grounding module compiles and executes a predicate-structured grounding program Γ(ℓ)
(built from P(ℓ) and parameterized by g(ℓ)
ϕ ) to transform raw observations into grounding-focused
representations:
o(ℓ)
g,t = Γ(ℓ)
ot, d(ℓ+1)
t
; P(ℓ), g(ℓ)
ϕ

∈Ω(ℓ)
g .
(10)
Then, the layer policy produces its decision conditioned on the grounding result and the upper-layer
decision:
d(ℓ)
t
∼π(ℓ)
θ

· | o(ℓ)
g,t, d(ℓ+1)
t

∈D(ℓ).
(11)
For the top layer, we condition on a fixed task/goal context d(L+1)
t
≡c.
Let the goal state (or goal set) be {sg} ⊆S, and consider the task of reaching {sg} within a finite
horizon T. We use a terminal goal indicator
rg(st) = I[st ∈{sg}],
(12)
to characterize successful task completion. Rather than framing learning as a single end-to-end
optimization problem, we use this objective to define the desired behavior induced by the hierarchical
orchestration of grounding and decision layers.
Given fixed grounding modules {ϕ(ℓ)}L
ℓ=1 and decision policies {θ(ℓ)}L
ℓ=1, the agent’s behavior
unfolds as a factorized, step-by-step action trajectory induced by hierarchical orchestration. At each
time step t, the agent observes ot, performs layer-wise grounding and decision making, executes a
primitive action at, and transitions to the next latent state st+1 through interaction with the environment. This process induces a trajectory distribution PΦ,Θ over environment states, observations, and
intermediate decisions across layers.
To characterize task completion under this induced behavior, we define a terminal goal indicator
rg(st) = I[st ∈{sg}],
(13)
which marks whether the goal state (or goal set) {sg} ⊆S is reached within a horizon T. The
cumulative discounted return
J(Φ, Θ) = Eτ∼PΦ,Θ
"
T
X
t=0
γt rg(st)
#
(14)
serves purely as a descriptive evaluation of the induced interaction trajectory, summarizing how the
layered grounding and decision process shapes progress toward the goal over time.

3.4
SKILL INDUCTION/ORCHESTRATION WITH PROACTIVE GROUNDING
We first define our induced symbolic skill as ω, a reusable neuro-symbolic program compiled from
successful trajectories:
ω :=

Preω
|{z}
matching condition
, ⟨(a1, q1), . . . , (aT , qT )⟩
|
{z
}
grounded action-query program
, Postω
| {z }
verifier

.
(15)
Here, Preω is a symbolic pre-condition used for condition-based skill matching, Postω is a symbolic
post-condition for outcome verification, and each program step is a pair (at, qt) consisting of a typed
action and its element-targeting query:
at ∈Atyped,
qt ∈Q(ΦLA),
(16)
where Q(·) denotes a query language over crafted action-conditioned attributes (e.g., enabled(),
filled(), occluded()) with logical operators such as AND, OR, NOT, EXIST, CONTAINS,
and IS.
LLM-free Skill Matching and Proactive Reuse.
Given a subtask intent τ and current observation
ot, we perform LLM-free skill gating by evaluating Preω on the focused element set induced from ot:
ω⋆= arg max
ω∈Ω1

Preω
 ot, τ

= True

,
(17)
where Ωis the skill library. Crucially, reuse is not a blind replay: at execution time, each step (at, qt)
is re-grounded on the current page by retrieving fresh element instances that satisfy qt, and the action
is only committed if its action-level attribute beliefs remain consistent:
Ft ←ϕS(ot, at, qt),
passt ←Check
 ϕA(Ft, at)

.
(18)
We then execute at with instantiated parameters (e.g., bid, text) derived from Ft and proceed only
if verification passes; otherwise we abort or fall back to planning. After completing the sequence, the
post-condition verifier is applied:
SUCCESS(ω, ot:T ) = 1[Postω(oT , ι) = True] .
(19)
This design yields LLM-free skill reuse through condition-based matching and proactive grounding
at every step, enabling the same symbolic skill to robustly transfer across page variations without
relying on open-loop action replay.
EXPERIMENTS
4.1
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
Benchmark and Evaluation.
We evaluate NesyProAct on the WebArena benchmark (Zhou et al.,
2024a), which contains 812 test examples spanning five major web activity domains (detailed in
Table 1). We also adopted the primitive action space as our starting point without consolidating skills
as seen in Appendix A.1.
Following WebArena’s standard evaluation protocol, task success is determined using program-based
functional correctness evaluators provided by the benchmark. Each test task is associated with a
domain-specific deterministic evaluator script that inspects the final environment state after agent
execution (e.g., DOM content, page URL, account records, or rendered page elements) and returns a
binary success signal indicating whether the task objective has been satisfied. This eliminates reliance
on subjective LLM-as-judge scoring and ensures reproducible, execution-grounded evaluation. For
tasks involving information retrieval, evaluators verify the presence of correct target entities or values
in the final page state; for transactional or navigation tasks, evaluators check that the correct UI state
or account-side effect has been reached. We follow the official WebArena and ASI evaluation suite
without modification, ensuring full comparability with prior work.
Backbone LM and Agent Architecture.
We evaluate NesyProAct with two LM backbones: GPT4o-mini for cost-effective evaluation and GPT-4o for high-performance assessment. We employ the
BrowserGym framework (Drouin et al., 2024) for web interaction and instantiate the primitive action
space Ap with the WebArena default action set (detailed in Appendix A).

Table 2: Progressive ablation of NesyProAct on Reddit subset of WebArena using GPT-4o
backbone, where each row removes (“–”) one component from the full system and reports the
resulting success rate (SR).
NesyProAct Design
SR(%)
NesyProAct (Full System)
85.8
– Skill Induction
72.6 (-13.2↓)
– State-Level Grounding
(Agent perceives raw partial obs.)
56.6 (-29.2↓)
– Transition-Level Grounding
(Agent plans w/o transition verifiers)
49.0 (-36.8↓)
Baselines.
We compare against three categories of methods (Table 1): reactive single-agent systems
(WebRL (Qi et al., 2025), AgentOccam (Yang et al., 2025)), planning-based systems (WebPilot
(Zhang et al., 2025)), and skill induction systems (AWM (Wang et al., 2025b), SkillWeaver (Zheng
et al., 2025), ASI (Wang et al., 2025a)). Among these, ASI most directly addresses execution
verification, distinguishing our proactive grounding approach from its post-hoc validation strategy.
4.2
BENCHMARK RESULTS
As shown in Tab. 1, NesyProAct achieves the best overall performance among all evaluated methods,
establishing a new state of the art on WebArena. With GPT-4o as backbone, NesyProAct reaches
an average success rate of 58.2%, surpassing the strongest single-agent baseline WebRL (49.1%)
and the strongest skill-induction baseline ASI (40.4%) by substantial margins. Notably, NesyProAct
also consistently outperforms prior methods across all domain subcategories, demonstrating robust
generalization across diverse web interaction environments.
Remarkably, even with the lightweight GPT-4o-mini backbone, NesyProAct attains a 45.5% average
success rate, matching or exceeding larger-model baselines. This demonstrates that proactive grounding and verification substantially reduce reliance on model scale, enabling small LLMs to achieve
strong performance through execution-aware control rather than sheer parametric capacity.
We further report domain-specific breakdowns. In Shopping and Reddit—domains requiring longhorizon navigation and complex operations under dynamic UI states—NesyProAct achieves 58.1%
and 85.8%, respectively, surpassing all prior methods. In GitLab, which involves structured multi-step
repository interactions, NesyProAct attains 56.7%, significantly improving over both single-agent
and skill-induction systems.
Finally, NesyProAct also achieves state-of-the-art performance on the challenging cross-site tasks.
During execution, we observe that the agent successfully reuses skills induced from different websites across sites, highlighting the effectiveness of verification-governed symbolic skill reuse for
cross-environment generalization. Overall, these results collectively underscores a key advantage of
NesyProAct: by decoupling skills from site-specific surface realizations and anchoring them in verifiable execution semantics, the agent generalizes through decision structure rather than memorization,
enabling robust transfer in heterogeneous web environments.
4.3
ABLATION STUDY
As demonstrated in Tab. 2, the full NESYPROACT achieves 85.8% SR. Removing Skill Induction reduces SR to 72.6 (-13.2), showing skills provide a strong but secondary boost via reusable
control. Removing State-Level Grounding further drops SR to 56.6 (-29.2), indicating that focused element retrieval and context conditioning are critical for reliable targeting. Finally, removing
Transition-Level Grounding decreases SR to 49.0 (-36.8), revealing that verifier-aware actionsequence synthesis is the most influential planning component once elements are grounded. Overall,
the largest degradations arise from grounding, implying the performance gains primarily come from
proactive grounding rather than open-loop action replay.

4.4
COST ANALYSIS
We analyze that the main token cost is from page observation. Applying skill in this situation can
significantly deduce the cost, as skill induction does not require additional observation from the
environment.
Phases
LLM calls
Token Usage
Task Decomposition
7966.5
Skill Orchestration
(optional if skill matched)
5.5
28947.6
Execution Verification
6.7
32784.2
The total average token usage is 69,698.3 tokens per task. Task Decomposition is relatively cheap at
7,966.5 tokens (11.4%) with only 1 call, while most cost comes from Skill Orchestration (28,947.6
tokens, 41.5%) and Execution Verification (32,784.2 tokens, 47.0%). Since skill reuse is LLM-free
via condition-based matching and proactive grounding, a matched subtask can skip both orchestration
and verifier prompting; therefore, every successful skill match removes the dominant cost contributors.
Concretely, bypassing orchestration + verification saves about 61.7k tokens, i.e., roughly 88.6% of
the per-task budget, leaving decomposition as the main remaining expense.
CONCLUSION
In this work, we studied the problem of reliable decision making for web agents operating in longhorizon, partially observable environments. We introduced NesyProAct, which incorporates explicit
symbolic grounding and verification into the agent’s control loop, allowing execution assumptions to
be monitored and corrected during interaction rather than after failure. On the challenging WebArena
benchmark, which reflects realistic UI variability and execution uncertainty, NesyProAct achieves
more than a 10%+ absolute improvement in success rate over strong reactive, planning-based, and
skill-induction baselines. These results suggest that integrating verification-driven control at the
decision-process level is a promising direction for building more robust and scalable web agents.
In the future, we plan to extend this framework by enabling the agent to autonomously discover
and refine its own symbolic verification logic through continuous environmental interaction and self
reflection.
REFERENCES
Tianle Cai, Xuezhi Wang, Tengyu Ma, Xinyun Chen, and Denny Zhou. Large language models as
tool makers. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR 2024),
2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=qV83K9d5WB.
Prateek Chhikara, Dev Khant, Saket Aryan, Taranjeet Singh, and Deshraj Yadav. Mem0: Building
production-ready ai agents with scalable long-term memory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.19413,
2025.
Xiang Deng, Yu Gu, Boyuan Zheng, Shijie Chen, Sam Stevens, Boshi Wang, Huan Sun, and Yu Su.
Mind2web: Towards a generalist agent for the web. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems (NeurIPS 2023), volume 36, 2024.
Alexandre Drouin, Maxime Gasse, Massimo Caccia, Issam H. Laradji, Manuel Del Verme, Tom
Marty, L´eo Boisvert, Megh Thakkar, Quentin Cappart, David Vazquez, Nicolas Chapados, and
Alexandre Lacoste. Workarena: How capable are web agents at solving common knowledge work
tasks?, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07718.
Kevin Ellis, Lionel Wong, Maxwell Nye, Mathias Sable-Meyer, Luc Cary, Lore Anaya Pozo, Luke
Hewitt, Armando Solar-Lezama, and Joshua B. Tenenbaum. Dreamcoder: Growing generalizable,
interpretable knowledge with wake–sleep bayesian program learning. Philosophical Transactions
of the Royal Society A, 381(2251):20220050, 2023.

Lutfi Eren Erdogan, Hiroki Furuta, Sehoon Kim, Nicholas Lee, Suhong Moon, Gopala Anumanchipalli, Kurt Keutzer, and Amir Gholami. Plan-and-act: Improving planning of agents
for long-horizon tasks. In Forty-second International Conference on Machine Learning, 2025.
URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=ybA4EcMmUZ.
Runnan Fang, Yuan Liang, Xiaobin Wang, Jialong Wu Manager, Shuofei Qiao, Pengjun Xie, Fei
Huang, Huajun Chen, and Ningyu Zhang. Memp: Exploring agent procedural memory, 2025.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.06433. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.06433.
Gabriel Grand, Lionel Wong, Matthew Bowers, Theo X. Olausson, Muxin Liu, Joshua B. Tenenbaum,
and Jacob Andreas. Lilo: Learning interpretable libraries by compressing and documenting code.
In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR 2024), 2024. URL
https://openreview.net/forum?id=TqYbAWKMIe.
Mengkang Hu, Tianxing Chen, Qiguang Chen, Yao Mu, Wenqi Shao, and Ping Luo. Hiagent:
Hierarchical working memory management for solving long-horizon agent tasks with large
language model, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.09559. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2408.09559.
Yitao Liu, Chenglei Si, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao. Contextual experience replay for selfimprovement of language agents, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.06698.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.06698.
Shikhar Murty, Dzmitry Bahdanau, and Christopher D. Manning. Nnetscape navigator: Complex
demonstrations for web agents without a demonstrator, 2024a. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2410.02907. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.02907.
Shikhar Murty, Christopher Manning, Peter Shaw, Mandar Joshi, and Kenton Lee. Bagel: Bootstrapping agents by guiding exploration with language, 2024b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2403.08140. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.08140.
Tianyue Ou, Frank F. Xu, Aman Madaan, Jiarui Liu, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Sudipta Sengupta,
Dan Roth, Graham Neubig, and Shuyan Zhou. Synatra: Turning indirect knowledge into direct
demonstrations for digital agents at scale. In The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2024), 2024. URL https://openreview.net/
forum?id=KjNEzWRIqn.
Siru Ouyang, Jun Yan, I-Hung Hsu, Yanfei Chen, Ke Jiang, Zifeng Wang, Rujun Han, Long T. Le,
Samira Daruki, Xiangru Tang, Vishy Tirumalashetty, George Lee, Mahsan Rofouei, Hangfei Lin,
Jiawei Han, Chen-Yu Lee, and Tomas Pfister. Reasoningbank: Scaling agent self-evolving with
reasoning memory, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.25140. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2509.25140.
Zehan Qi, Xiao Liu, Iat Long Iong, Hanyu Lai, Xueqiao Sun, Jiadai Sun, Xinyue Yang, Yu Yang,
Shuntian Yao, Wei Xu, Jie Tang, and Yuxiao Dong. WebRL: Training LLM web agents via
self-evolving online curriculum reinforcement learning. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=
oVKEAFjEqv.
Yuxiao Qu, Tianjun Zhang, Naman Garg, and Aviral Kumar. Recursive introspection: Teaching
language model agents how to self-improve, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.
18219. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.18219.
Gabriel Sarch, Lawrence Jang, Michael Tarr, William W. Cohen, Kenneth Marino, and Katerina
Fragkiadaki. Vlm agents generate their own memories: Distilling experience into embodied
programs of thought. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2024), 37:
75942–75985, 2024.
Junhong Shen, Hao Bai, Lunjun Zhang, Yifei Zhou, Amrith Setlur, Shengbang Tong, Diego Caples,
Nan Jiang, Tong Zhang, Ameet Talwalkar, and Aviral Kumar. Thinking vs. doing: Agents that
reason by scaling test-time interaction, 2025. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.07976.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.07976.

Guanzhi Wang, Yuqi Xie, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Mandlekar, Chaowei Xiao, Yuke Zhu, Linxi Fan, and
Anima Anandkumar. Voyager: An open-ended embodied agent with large language models, 2023.
URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16291. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.16291.
Zhiruo Wang, Graham Neubig, and Daniel Fried. Trove: Inducing verifiable and efficient toolboxes
for solving programmatic tasks. In Forty-first International Conference on Machine Learning
(ICML 2024), 2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=DCNCwaMJjI.
Zora Zhiruo Wang, Apurva Gandhi, Graham Neubig, and Daniel Fried. Inducing programmatic
skills for agentic tasks. In Second Conference on Language Modeling, 2025a. URL https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=lsAY6fWsog.
Zora Zhiruo Wang, Jiayuan Mao, Daniel Fried, and Graham Neubig.
Agent workflow memory. In Forty-second International Conference on Machine Learning, 2025b. URL https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=NTAhi2JEEE.
Yiheng Xu, Dunjie Lu, Zhennan Shen, Junli Wang, Zekun Wang, Yuchen Mao, Caiming Xiong,
and Tao Yu. Agenttrek: Agent trajectory synthesis via guiding replay with web tutorials. In
The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR 2025), 2025. URL
https://openreview.net/forum?id=EEgYUccwsV.
Tianci Xue, Weijian Qi, Tianneng Shi, Chan Hee Song, Boyu Gou, Dawn Song, Huan Sun, and
Yu Su. An illusion of progress? assessing the current state of web agents, 2025. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2504.01382. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.01382.
Ke Yang, Yao Liu, Sapana Chaudhary, Rasool Fakoor, Pratik Chaudhari, George Karypis, and
Huzefa Rangwala. Agentoccam: A simple yet strong baseline for LLM-based web agents. In
The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2025. URL https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=oWdzUpOlkX.
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao.
ReAct: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In The Eleventh International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/pdf/2210.
03629.
Simon Yu, Gang Li, Weiyan Shi, and Peng Qi. Polyskill: Learning generalizable skills through
polymorphic abstraction, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.15863.
Yao Zhang, Zijian Ma, Yunpu Ma, Zhen Han, Yu Wu, and Volker Tresp. Webpilot: A versatile and
autonomous multi-agent system for web task execution with strategic exploration. In AAAI, pp.
23378–23386, 2025. URL https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.v39i22.34505.
Boyuan Zheng, Michael Y. Fatemi, Xiaolong Jin, Zora Zhiruo Wang, Apurva Gandhi, Yueqi Song,
Yu Gu, Jayanth Srinivasa, Gaowen Liu, Graham Neubig, and Yu Su. Skillweaver: Web agents
can self-improve by discovering and honing skills, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2504.07079. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.07079.
Shuyan Zhou, Frank F. Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng,
Tianyue Ou, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, Uri Alon, and Graham Neubig. Webarena: A realistic
web environment for building autonomous agents, 2024a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2307.13854.
Yifei Zhou, Qianlan Yang, Kaixiang Lin, Min Bai, Xiong Zhou, Yu-Xiong Wang, Sergey Levine, and
Erran Li. Proposer-agent-evaluator(pae): Autonomous skill discovery for foundation model
internet agents, 2024b.
URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13194.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.13194.
He Zhu, Tianrui Qin, King Zhu, Heyuan Huang, Yeyi Guan, Jinxiang Xia, Yi Yao, Hanhao Li,
Ningning Wang, Pai Liu, Tianhao Peng, Xin Gui, Xiaowan Li, Yuhui Liu, Yuchen Eleanor Jiang,
Jun Wang, Changwang Zhang, Xiangru Tang, Ge Zhang, Jian Yang, Minghao Liu, Xitong Gao,
Jiaheng Liu, and Wangchunshu Zhou. Oagents: An empirical study of building effective agents,
2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.15741. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.15741.

APPENDIX
A
IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
A.1
PRIMITIVE ACTION SPACE
Our agent operates using a standard set of primitive actions from the WebArena benchmark, which
enables interaction with web interfaces through the BrowserGym framework. Table 3 enumerates
the complete action space available to the agent. These actions are organized into four functional
categories: basic element interactions, page navigation, tab management, and user communication.
Table 3: Primitive action space Ap used throughout our experiments.
ACTION
FUNCTIONALITY
Basic Interactions
NOOP(WAIT MS)
IDLE FOR SPECIFIED DURATION.
CLICK(ELEM)
ACTIVATE AN ELEMENT.
HOVER(ELEM)
MOVE CURSOR OVER AN ELEMENT.
FILL(ELEM, VALUE)
INPUT TEXT INTO AN ELEMENT.
KEYBOARD PRESS(KEY COMB)
EXECUTE A KEY COMBINATION.
SCROLL(X, Y)
SCROLL IN HORIZONTAL OR VERTICAL DIRECTION.
SELECT OPTION(ELEM, OPTIONS)
CHOOSE FROM AVAILABLE OPTIONS.
Page Navigation
GOTO(URL)
NAVIGATE TO SPECIFIED URL.
GO BACK()
RETURN TO PREVIOUS PAGE.
GO FORWARD()
ADVANCE TO NEXT PAGE.
Tab Management
NEW TAB()
CREATE A NEW BROWSER TAB.
TAB CLOSE()
CLOSE ACTIVE TAB.
TAB FOCUS(INDEX)
SWITCH TO SPECIFIED TAB.
User Communication
SEND MSG TO USER(TEXT)
DELIVER MESSAGE TO USER.
REPORT INFEASIBLE(REASON)
INDICATE TASK CANNOT BE COMPLETED.
A.2
TABLE OF DEFINITIONS FOR PROACTIVE NEURAL-SYMBOLIC AGENTIC DECISION
SPACE (PNSDP)
Symbol
Formal Definition and Role
S, A
Latent environment state space and primitive interaction action space, with dynamics
governed by T : S × A →S.
O
Observation space corresponding to partial UI feedback available to the agent after action
execution.
G
Subgoal space where task specifications are decomposed into an ordered set of subgoals
to guide high level planning.
Φ
Hierarchical symbolic predicate space defining the internal semantic decision interface
over states, actions, transitions, and subgoals.
V
Programmatic verification operator V : Φ × A × O →C that evaluates whether symbolic
effects for an executed action are satisfied.
Ω
Space of grounding and repair operators, corresponding to information seeking or corrective subgoal actions invoked upon verification outcomes.
TΦ
Symbolic transition dynamics TΦ : Φ × (A ∪Ω) × C →Φ specifying the evolution of
the agent’s internal state.
Table 4: Formal components of the Proactive Neural-Symbolic Agentic Decision Process (PNSDP)
derived from Definition 3.1.

Web Observation
(GUI / Vision)
Neural Perception
& Reference Binding
Symbolic State
Abstraction
High-Level Planner
(Subgoals / Skills)
Skill Execution
(Typed Actions)
Programmatic
Verification
Proactive Grounding
& Repair
Web Environment
Figure 2: Overview of the hierarchical planning pipeline with neural-symbolic proactive grounding in
NESYPROACT. High-level planning operates over symbolic abstractions, while low-level execution
is continuously verified and repaired through an explicit grounding loop.
A.3
OVERVIEW OF HIERARCHICAL PLANNING PIPELINE WITH NEURAL SYMBOLIC
PROACTIVE GROUNDING
Figure 2 illustrates the hierarchical planning pipeline underlying NESYPROACT, highlighting how
neural perception, symbolic decision making, and proactive grounding are integrated into a single
closed decision loop. A key property of this design is the explicit separation between perceptual
uncertainty handling and decision-level verification: neural components are used solely to bind
observations to symbolic references, while symbolic structures govern state abstraction, action typing,
transition verification, and repair. This separation ensures that execution correctness is enforced at
the decision level rather than inferred post hoc from language-model judgments. Another important
property is temporal stability: verification outcomes feed back directly into high-level planning,
preventing unverified execution assumptions from propagating across steps and enabling controlled
recovery before errors compound. Looking ahead, this pipeline opens several directions for future
work, including learning adaptive grounding strategies, extending symbolic interfaces to richer
temporal or probabilistic constraints, and scaling proactive verification to multi-agent or long-running
web workflows.
A.4
SYMBOLIC GROUNDING PROGRAM DEMONSTRATION
Program A.1 (Autonomous Grounding Program (compiled example)). Subtask Intent: Search
for ‘‘camera’’ and open the first result.
Transition-Level Program: CompileTransitionIntent(ι, F) 7→(a1:T , q1:T )
Step 1
Type query into search box
Action
type(bid = $b1, text = “camera”)
Query
IS(InputBox) AND enabled()=True AND occluded()=False
AND (CONTAINS(placeholder,"search") OR
CONTAINS(label,"search"))
AND filled()=False
Step 2
Trigger search
Action
click(bid = $b2)
Query
IS(Button) AND enabled()=True AND occluded()=False
AND (CONTAINS(text,"search") OR CONTAINS(aria label,"search"))
Guard
NOT EXIST( IS(Button) AND (CONTAINS(text,"search") OR
CONTAINS(aria label,"search")) )
⇒use fallback action:
press(key=ENTER)
Step 3
Open first result
Action
click(bid = $b3)
Query
IS(Link) AND enabled()=True AND occluded()=False
AND (CONTAINS(text,"camera") OR CONTAINS(desc,"camera"))
AND rank=Top1
Output
(a1:3, q1:3) = ([type($b1, ”camera”), click($b2), click($b3)], [q1, q2, q3])

Algorithm 1 Algorithm workflow of NESYPROACT with four-level grounding
Require: Task objective G, initial observation o0, augmented typed action space Atyped ∪Askill, atomic predicate
library Φ
Ensure: Completed task (or best-effort trajectory), updated symbolic skill set Askill
1: /* Level-4 Grounding: Decomposition-level (subtask planning) */
2: {ιk}K
k=1, E ←ϕD(o0, G, Atyped ∪Askill)
▷output intents & dependencies
3: Initialize focused element set F0 ←∅
4: for k ←1 to K do
5:
/* Subtask intent */
ιk
6:
/* NeSy skill gating: condition-based matching */
7:
s⋆←MATCHSKILL(ιk, ot, Askill, Φ)
8:
if s⋆̸= ∅then
9:
/* LLM-free skill reuse: purely symbolic control */
10:
(ot, ok) ←EXECUTESKILL(s⋆, ot, Φ)
11:
if ok then
12:
continue
13:
end if
14:
end if
15:
/* Level-3 Grounding: Transition-level (skill planning / orchestration) */
16:
(a1:T , q1:T ) ←ϕT (ιk, Ft)
▷output typed action sequence + parameter queries
17:
for t′ ←1 to T do
18:
/* Level-2 Grounding: State-level (focused element retrieval) */
19:
Ft′ ←ϕS(ot′, at′, qt′)
▷output elements + context fitting queries
20:
/* Level-1 Grounding: Action-level (attribute belief / verification) */
21:
attrt′ ←ϕA(Ft′, at′)
▷e.g., disabled(), filled()
22:
ˆot′+1 ←ACT(at′; Ft′)
23:
pass ←VERIFY(at′, attrt′, ˆot′+1)
24:
if not pass then
25:
break
26:
end if
27:
ot′+1 ←ˆot′+1
28:
end for
29:
if SUBTASKSUCCESS(ιk, ot, Φ) then
30:
/* Skill induction: store or update symbolic skill */
31:
Askill ←STOREORUPDATESKILL(ιk, τk, Φ, Askill)
32:
end if
33: end for
A.5
PROMPT DETAILS
Prompt 1: Skill Reuse
You are a skill reuse expert who determines whether a skill can be reused to complete the current
subtask.
You are given: - The overall task goal. - The query of the current subtask. - All available skills in
the current situation, their descriptions, and parameters(If any).
You will return: - Whether a skill can be reused, the skill name and parameter if any. **Critical**:
Return only the EXACT skill name if it can be reused and null if no skill can be reused.
Instructions: - If a skill can be reused, the skill name and description should match EXACTLY
with the intention of the subgoal. - If a skill has parameters, the skill name should include the
parameter based on the given query and task goal. - If a skill dont require parameters, set the
parameter to null. - **Critical**: Try your best to use the skill if possible. - If no skill can be
reused, set the name to null and parameter to null.
Example: Subtask goal: Search for laptops Skills available: search for items(parameter
required:
True),
find most expensive book(parameter
required:
False)
Response:
”name”:”search for items”, ”parameter”:”laptop”
Subtask goal: Navigate to review page Skills available: Navigate to review page(parameter
required:
False),
Navigate to user account(parameter
required:
False)
Response:
”name”:”Navigate to review page”, ”parameter”:null

Output format strictly in JSON format,do not output any other context: ”name”:”skill name”,
”parameter”:”parameter” ”””
Prompt 2: Planner
You are a task planner specialized in web task decomposition. Your task is to decompose a
complex web task into multiple subtasks with clear dependency and execution order relationships.
You are given: - The overall task goal - The current URL of the web page.
You will return: - A list of subtasks in JSON format
Instructions: - Each subtask should have a one-sentence description, it should be concise and
clear(one verb + what to do). For example, ”Search for wireless earphone”, ”Navigate to the
review page”, etc. - The subtask should be concise and clear, describing a specific web subgoal.
For example, ”Sort products by price”, instead of ”Sort products”. - Login in is NOT required,
the web page is automatically logged in.
For each subtask, you MUST: Provide precondition predicates: These predicates verify that
necessary conditions are met before executing this subtask by checking if certain information
exists: - Previous action sequence verification (check if certain action types were executed) -
URL verification (check if URL contains certain keywords) - Current page accessibility tree
verification (check if axtree contains certain keywords)
Precondition predicates format (all fields check for existence, not complex logic): - ”previous actions”: List of action type strings that MUST appear in previous action sequences -
Example: [”fill”, ”click”] means ”fill” and ”click” action types must have been executed in
previous subgoals - This verifies the execution flow: e.g., before ”sort”, we need to have ”search”
(which typically involves ”fill” action) - Common action types: ”click”, ”fill”, ”hover”, ”go back”,
”go forward”, ”noop” - Check: All listed action types must exist in the previous action sequences -
”url”: List of keywords that MUST appear in the current URL - Example: [”earphone”, ”search”]
means both ”earphone” and ”search” must be present in the URL - This verifies that we are
on the correct page after previous actions - Use this to ensure we are on a search results page,
product page, etc. - Check: All listed keywords must be found in the current URL - ”axtree”: List
of keywords that MUST appear in the current page accessibility tree - Example: [”earphone”,
”price”] means both ”earphone” and ”price” must be present in the current page axtree - This
verifies that expected content is visible on the current page - Check: All listed keywords must
be found in the current page axtree (as text content) - Key words must be SINGLE word, not
phrases. - For example, if the key word is galaxy-s6-screen-protector, dismantal it into [”galaxy”,
”s6”, ”screen”, ”protector”]
IMPORTANT: - All precondition checks are simple existence checks - if the field is specified,
all listed items must be found - Use ”previous actions” to verify execution flow (e.g., [”fill”]
before sort means search must have been done) - Use ”url” to verify page state (e.g., [”search”]
to ensure we’re on search results page) - Use ”axtree” to verify page content (e.g., [”earphone”]
to ensure search results are displayed)
Please return the subtasks in JSON format. Example:
”subtasks”: [ ”id”: 1, ”description”:
”Search for wireless earphone”, ”precondition predicates”: null , ”id”: 2, ”description”: ”Sort
products by price”, ”precondition predicates”: ”previous actions”: [”fill”], ”url”: [”earphone”,
”search”], ”axtree”: [”earphone”] ]
Prompt 3: Subtask Evaluator
You are a web task judge that can judge whether a subgoal has been reached by inspecting the
resulting web page.
You are given: - The executed subgoal - The resulting web page represented as an accessibility
tree with every element whose ID, role, and value are specified. - The excuted action history of
the current subtask.
Instructions: - First focus on some key elements that may be indicative of the subgoal being
reached. - Output a rationale for the thinking process and your judgement out of Failed, Success
in ¡¿.
**Critical**: If the subgoal is modification of the current page, you should judge the success
based on the action history. If the action history already completed the subgoal

Below are the judgement candidates,only one of them should be selected: ¡success¿ ¡failed¿
¡incomplete¿
Example: Executed subgoal: Search for laptops
Rationale: The subgoal is to search for laptops. I need to check if the search results are now
visible and accessible on the page. Looking at the accessibility tree, I can see some elements
with role ”listitem” and values like ”Dell XPS 13”, ”MacBook Pro”, ”HP Spectre x360”, etc.
This indicates the search results have been successfully displayed. ¡success¿