Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
THE ALGORITHMIC SELF-PORTRAIT:
DECONSTRUCTING MEMORY IN CHATGPT
Anonymous authors
Paper under double-blind review
ABSTRACT
To enable personalized and context-aware interactions, conversational AI systems
have introduced a new mechanism: Memory. Memory creates what we refer to as
the Algorithmic Self-portrait—a new form of personalization derived from users’
self-disclosed information divulged within private conversations. While memory
enables more coherent exchanges, the underlying processes of memory creation
remain opaque, raising critical questions about data sensitivity, user agency, and
the fidelity of the resulting portrait.
To bridge this research gap, we analyze 2,050 memory entries from 80 real-world
ChatGPT users. Our analyses reveal three key findings: (1) a striking 96% of
memories in our dataset are created unilaterally by the conversational system, potentially shifting agency away from the user; (2) Memories, in our dataset, contain
a rich mix of GDPR-defined personal data (in 28% memories) along with psychological insights about participants (in 52% memories); and (3) A significant
majority of the memories (84%) are directly grounded in user context, indicating
faithful representation of the conversations. Finally, we introduce a framework—
Attribution Shield—that anticipates these inferences, alerts about potentially sensitive memory inferences, and suggests query reformulations to protect personal
information without sacrificing utility.
INTRODUCTION
Conversational AI systems like ChatGPT, Gemini, and Claude have become indispensable tools
integrated in the daily routines of hundreds of millions of users worldwide (Chatterji et al., 2025;
McCain et al., 2025). Their versatility has fueled this widespread adoption, with users now routinely
relying on them for finding information, brainstorming ideas, and even seeking personal advice. As
a result, these systems are evolving from simple chatbots into foundational platforms that mediate
the interaction between society and the Web.
To meet the demands of these deep and diverse interactions, conversational systems are increasingly introducing personalization capabilities designed to improve user experience (OpenAI, 2025a;
Siliski, 2025; Anthropic, 2025). While these personalization capabilities can improve utility by more
contextually relevant and individually tailored answers, they are built upon a foundation of extensive
data collection, raising long-standing concerns about privacy, security, and data governance (Toch
et al., 2012). Furthermore, continuously adapting responses to align with a user’s stated beliefs
deepens the risks of confining the user into a conversational filter bubble (Pariser, 2011). These
interwoven challenges—balancing utility against the dual risks of privacy intrusion and narrowed
perspectives—demand a closer examination of the underlying mechanisms that enable such personalization.
Personalization in conversational AI systems using Memory: Recently, conversational AI systems like ChatGPT, Gemini, Claude have introduced a new architectural mechanism, termed memory, that allows the system to retain and recall information from past conversations, enabling more
personalized and contextually coherent exchanges (OpenAI, 2025a; Siliski, 2025; Anthropic, 2025).
The retention of information operates in two distinct modes: explicitly, through direct user commands, and implicitly, through unilateral inference by the system itself (OpenAI, 2025). While the
explicit mode aligns with user agency, the implicit mode shifts the control to the conversational

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
systems, raising the fundamental question about who holds the agency in shaping and curating this
persistent memory on behalf of the user?
Personalization on online platforms has been a well-studied phenomenon. A substantial body of
previous research has examined utilities (Castelluccia et al., 2012; Vombatkere et al., 2024; Boeker
& Urman, 2022) of personalization along with concerns such as opacity, lack of user control, and
sensitive inferences (Purificato et al., 2024; Barbosa et al., 2021). However, personalization in conversational systems is important to be studied for its nuanced distinctions from traditional platforms.
Traditional platforms typically mediate between content creators and consumers, whereas conversational AI systems operate as active stakeholders in the conversation. While such active participation enables the system to craft arguments, frame choices, and provide ostensible support that
is tailored to users’ needs, this same ability may also exacerbate potential risks due to inherent
system vulnerabilities e.g., hallucination (Huang et al., 2025; Ravichander et al., 2025), anthropomorphism (Ibrahim et al., 2025; Karnam et al., 2026b), sycophancy (Sharma et al., 2024; OpenAI,
2025c). The gravity of these concerns is underscored by a recent spate of regulatory scrutiny and
litigation targeting the practices of leading conversational AI systems (FTC, 2025; Hill, 2025). Such
concerns raise another set of important questions regarding what information do these systems deem
‘worthy’ of retention in their memory for personalization and are these information captured faithfully?
Research questions (RQs):
To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first study to investigate
the phenomenon of memory in conversational AI systems by conceptualizing it as an algorithmic
self-portrait. Algorithmic – because its creation, curation and provenance may rely on the algorithms governing the conversational AI systems, and self-portrait – because it renders the user’s
self-disclosed information divulged to the AI system. To deconstruct AI memory, our work is guided
by the following research questions:
RQ1: Which among the two – the AI system or the user, hold greater agency in updating AI memory?
RQ2: What user information does the AI system store as memory?
RQ3: How faithfully does AI memory capture user conversations?
RQ4: Can memory inference be reverse-engineered to mitigate attribution and privacy risks for
users?
To answer these questions, we analyze a subset of INVIVOGPT (Karnam et al., 2026b) dataset which
is a collection of ChatGPT traces obtained through GDPR-based data donations. Our motivation
to analyze ChatGPT traces is twofold : (1) ChatGPT is the most widely used conversational AI
system (Chatterji et al., 2025), and (2) it is the first to introduce memory to its conversational system.
We analyze data from 80 participants (recruited from Prolific), who exercised their GDPR right of
access (EU, 2016) and voluntarily donated their ChatGPT interactions. These interaction traces
are organized in terms of conversations and turns. Each turn is a single ⟨user query, AI response⟩
pair. A set of turns without any intermediate break together form a conversation. To identify the
recent conversations with memory inferences, we identified the messages from the ‘bio’ tool that
included the phrase model set context updated and collected the corresponding user query in the
conversations. In this way, we created a data set of 1,058 conversations that contained 22,971 turns
out of which 2,050 queries triggered memory updates. Our analyses reveal the following interesting
observations:
(1) Only 4% (84) of the memories in our analyzed dataset are initiated by participants, while the
remaining 96% are unilaterally triggered by ChatGPT. Such stark asymmetry in memory update
patterns indicates superior agency of the AI system in shaping conversational memory, as opposed
to user-driven control.
(2) In our analyzed dataset, 28% of the memories include personal data defined under the GDPR.
Additionally, 52% of the memories contain psychological information about participants, spanning
different Theory of Mind (ToM) (Beaudoin et al., 2020) categories. This indicates that ChatGPT
may add sensitive information about users to the memory.
(3) Majority of the analyzed memories (84%) are directly grounded in user context, indicating faithful representation of conversations.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
(4)
Using
in-context
learning
and
fine-tuning
strategies
on
open-source
LLMs
(Qwen2.5-32B-it (Qwen et al., 2025), Gemma3-27B-it (Team et al., 2025), and
GPT-OSS-20B (Agarwal et al., 2025)), we are able to imitate the memory extraction of ChatGPT,
achieving semantic similarity of ∼60% with the ground-truth ChatGPT memories. Our memory
extractor analyses indicate that if memories were to be triggered from all queries, it would reveal
even more sensitive information about participants. To mitigate this risk, we train the same models
to reformulate queries asked by participants to shield their attribution to sensitive information. Our
results indicate that over 94% of these reformulated queries prevent attribution, while preserving
the utility (i.e., the intent– measured through semantic similarity) of the original query.
BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
Background. Major AI platforms have introduced persistent memory to improve conversational
continuity, allowing LLMs to retain user-specific information across sessions (OpenAI, 2025a;
Siliski, 2025; Anthropic, 2025). Memory can be created explicitly by user request or implicitly
through model inference, and users can review, update, or delete stored memories (OpenAI, 2025a).
To mitigate risks, OpenAI restricts memory to broadly useful personalization signals (e.g., preferences or recurring tasks) and prohibits storing sensitive or overly personal information unless
explicitly requested (OpenAI, 2025b).
Personalization. Unlike traditional web personalization based on behavioral profiling for ads and
recommendations (Eke et al., 2019; Gauch et al., 2007; Castelluccia et al., 2012; Andreou et al.,
2019), LLM memory enables personalization rooted in private conversational signals, raising new
transparency and control concerns (Purificato et al., 2024; Barbosa et al., 2021).
Data Access. Because personalization data are typically inaccessible, prior work has leveraged
GDPR-based data donations to audit platforms from a user-centric perspective (Boeschoten et al.,
2022; Yang et al., 2025; Zannettou et al., 2024; Hase et al., 2024; Karnam et al., 2026a).Building
on this paradigm, our work explores how data donations can be applied to study personalization
in large-scale conversational AI systems like ChatGPT. An extended version of related work is in
Appendix B.
DATASET FOR MEMORY ANALYSES
We analyze a specific subset of INVIVOGPT dataset (Karnam et al., 2026b). Curation of this dataset
builds upon the emerging paradigm of GDPR-empowered data donations (Zannettou et al., 2024;
Karnam et al., 2026a; Yang et al., 2025). Under Article 15(3) of the GDPR (EU, 2016), users have
the right to obtain a personal copy of all their data processed by online platforms. In INVIVOGPT,
participants exercised their GDPR rights to obtain their ChatGPT interaction histories, which they
subsequently donated for research purposes. Readers can find more details about the data collection
procedure in the paper cited herewith (Karnam et al., 2026b).
Demographic of participants: In INVIVOGPT, participants were recruited from Prolific crowdsourcing platform (Prolific, 2025) who self-reported to regularly use ChatGPT. They were required
to have at least 100 conversations with the conversational system and maintain at least 90 days of
active usage. In this paper, we analyze data of 80 participants in INVIVOGPT, who primarily are
from the United States (33.75%), and Europe (62.5%). Table 1 (in Appendix C) reports detailed
participants’ demographics.
Conversation traces in INVIVOGPT: The data provided by the ChatGPT includes files containing conversations (user inputs, ChatGPT responses, and associated metadata such as conversation
ID, message ID, creation time, model used etc., status of the response, and content type), shared
conversations (list of conversations shared with others), message feedback (list of model responses
rated by the user) etc. For the purpose of this work, we focus on the conversations data between
participants and ChatGPT. These conversation traces are organized in terms of conversations and
turns. Each turn is a single ⟨user query, AI response⟩pair. A set of turns without any intermediate
break together form a conversation.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Memory entry identification:
To effectively respond to various user prompts, ChatGPT is equipped with different external tools (e.g., image_gen, python, automation,
file_search, etc.). Among the external tools used by ChatGPT for effective conversations,
the bio tool is responsible for storing, updating, or deleting memory entries that may be useful in
future interactions. To identify all memory entries, we searched for the entries of the bio tool that
have the content ‘model set context updated’. Using its ‘parent’ attribute, we then traced back to
find the corresponding GPT message that invoked the tool, as well as immediately preceding user
message that triggered the memory update. These messages triggered a memory update and the
associated GPT message to the tool are the memory entries that got stored in the bio tool for the
account.
This process resulted in a total of 2, 050 memory entries. These memories were triggered in the
context of 1, 058 different conversations across 65 (out of 80) participants. These 1, 058 conversations contain a total of 22, 971 queries/prompts. In the remainder of this paper, we focus on different
aspects of these memory entries to understand what they contain, their provenance, and whether we
can imitate this memory generation for mitigating attribution risks.
USER AGENCY AND SENSITIVITY OF MEMORIES
In this section, we investigate how closely the memory feature in ChatGPT aligns with OpenAI’s
stated policies about user agency and retention of sensitive information.
4.1
AGENCY OF MEMORY UPDATE
As per OpenAI’s documentation (OpenAI, 2025), memories are details which the users have explicitly asked ChatGPT to remember, indicating users have the agency to decide what gets stored in the
memory. However, the same documentation also describes an implicit mode of remembering (see
Figure 5a in Appendix D): ‘If you share information that might be useful for future conversations,
ChatGPT may save those details as a memory without you needing to ask.’ In Figure 5b (in Appendix D), we show an example of a memory being saved without the user explicitly asking for
saving it. Such dichotomy may lead to gaps between user expectation and actual system behavior
having privacy implications.
To understand whether memory updates are primarily initiated by users or by ChatGPT, we identify
explicit linguistic patterns that signal memory-related operations. We first implement a regex-based
classification to detect linguistic patterns that explicitly signal memory intent in user messages, using
trigger terms such as remember, note that, store, save, add to memory, and forget. Out of the 2, 050
memory instances, only 4% (n = 84) include an explicit request to perform a memory operation
(see Figure 6 in Appendix D). Consequently, 96% of all memory entries are unilaterally initiated by
ChatGPT, without a detected direct command from participants.
These practices are consistent with OpenAI’s policy, which permits the system to store information
characterized as “useful”. However, our observations indicate a gap between the policy’s emphasis
on user involvement and the operationalization of initiating memory updates. In practice, the decision to create or modify a memory is predominantly determined by system-level mechanisms rather
than explicit user actions. As a result, user influence over memory formation is mediated primarily
through interaction content rather than direct control over update events.
4.2
REMEMBERING SENSITIVE INFORMATION
ChatGPT’s disproportionate agency to save memories raises important privacy and safety considerations, especially concerning what kind of information about users is being stored. OpenAI’s
documentation indicates that the system is trained not to proactively remember sensitive information unless explicitly asked (OpenAI, 2025;b) (see Figure 5c in Appendix D).
To assess the current operationalization practice on sensitive user data, we utilize GDPR’s (EU,
2016) definitions of personal data (Article 4(1)) and special category personal data (Article 9(1))
to identify if there is any information that could be categorized as sensitive as per the GDPR definitions. To mark this information at scale, we supplied these GDPR definitions and memory entries to
GPT-4o for annotation. We provide the full prompts in Appendix H. To assess annotation reliability,

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Personal
GDPR 4(1)
Special
Category
GDPR 4(9)
Percentage
28%
(n=575)
7%
(n=151)
(a) Presence of pers. data
Personal
GDPR 4(1)
Special
Category
GDPR 4(9)
Number of Users
91%
(n=59)
54%
(n=35)
(b) Pers. info by user
Name
Economic
Social
Cultural
Physical
Physiological
ID number
Address
Percentage
41%
17% 14% 10%
6%
6%
3%
3%
(c) Personal data types
Health data
Sexual orientation
Philosophical belief
Sex life
Ethnicity
Political opinion
Genetic data
Race
Religion
Gender
Percentage
61%
10% 8% 8% 6% 2% 2% 2% 1% 1%
(d) Special data types
Figure 1: In contrast to OpenAI policies, ChatGPT memories store information which could be
categorized as GDPR defined personal data or special category personal data.
we manually annotate a random subset of 100 English-language memories. Each entry was independently annotated by two authors using the same codebook and instructions as for the LLM-assisted
procedure. Annotators reached an agreement of 88% across the two legally defined personal data
categories with the average agreement with the model being 73%.
Our observations on the presence of personal data are summarized in Figure 1. Out of all memory entries, 28% contain GDPR-defined personal data, 7% of the memory entries contain specialcategory data. Furthermore, 91% of participants have personal data stored in their memories, 54%
have special-category personal data stored. Figure 1c shows the different kinds of GDPR-defined
personal data present in memories. Names appear in 41% of entries, and attributes of economic,
social, and cultural identity appear in 40% of the memory entries. Within special-category data,
health is most common, appearing in 61% of the memories that contain special-category information (see Figure 1d). At the participant level, Figure 7a (in Appendix D) shows that names (63%),
economic (62%), and social identity (57%) are frequently captured. Figure 7b (in Appendix D)
shows 35% of participants have health-related information saved in their ChatGPT memory. These
observations reveal that, in contrast to OpenAI’s stated policies, ChatGPT’s memories contain a
non-trivial amount of sensitive information about users.
MEMORIES AND MENTAL STATES
Traditional platforms collect data about users’ demographics, behaviors, and usage history (e.g.,
likes, shares, comments, ad interactions, etc.)
to infer interests and provide personalized services (Karnam et al., 2026a; Celli et al., 2025). In contrast, conversational AI systems like ChatGPT
build memory directly from users’ self-disclosed narratives. These memories often extend beyond
factual identifiers, capturing aspects of the user’s internal world. For example, a memory entry such
as ‘UserName has a fear of failure, particularly related to making major career decisions.’ simultaneously conveys an identity marker (the user’s name) and captures the user’s subjective state (fear
of failure).
Such entries illustrate that ChatGPT’s memory may encode not only who the user is, but also how
the user thinks and feels.
We refer to these as psychological memories.
The highly sensitive
and contextual nature of such psychological information suggests that a purely factual taxonomy
based on legally defined sensitive data is inadequate to fully characterize them. Therefore, to interpret these psychological memories, we introduce a framework grounded in the Theory of Mind
(ToM), a core psychological construct that describes the ability to infer and represent others’ mental
states (Premack & Woodruff, 1978; Beaudoin et al., 2020).
5.1
TAXONOMY FOR PSYCHOLOGICAL MEMORIES
To categorize these memories, we adapt the seven ToM categories proposed by Beaudoin et.
al. (Beaudoin et al., 2020): (a) emotions, (b) desires, (c) intentions, (d) percepts, (e) knowledge,
(f) beliefs, (g) mentalistic understanding of non-literal communication. Table 2 (in Appendix E)
lists the ToM categories, their interpretations, and some examples.
LLM-assisted Annotation and Validation: To automate the annotation of memory entries into
these categories, we develop an LLM-assisted classification pipeline using GPT-4o. The model
determines whether each memory entry contains each of the seven ToM categories. We also run a

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
secondary pass as a self-verification step to filter out non-grounded inferences. We provide the LLMbased annotation pipeline and prompts in Appendix H. To evaluate the reliability of the annotations,
two authors annotated both the presence or absence of ToM information and the five specified categories. They reached an average of 96% agreement across ToM categories. Agreement with the
model output averaged 93% across categories. After observing the high agreement on the smaller
sample, we scaled up annotation with the model.
5.2
CHARACTERIZATION OF PSYCHOLOGICAL MEMORIES
Across the full dataset of 2, 050 memory entries, we find at least one ToM category in 52% of memory entries from 97% of all participants with memories inferred in their ChatGPT traces. Figure 2a
shows the distribution of the categories across the memory entries that have at least one ToM category. Desires emerge as the most frequently represented category (73%), followed by intentions
(16%), emotions (14%), and beliefs (11%). The least common categories are mentalistic understanding (2%) and knowledge and percepts (both 7%). Figure 2b shows that nearly all participants
(97%) had at least one “desire” recorded in memory, while “intention” and “knowledge” were found
for 68% and 52% of participants, respectively.
Desire
Intention
Emotion
Belief
Knowledge
Percept
Mentalistic
Percentage
73%
(n=781)
16%
(n=168)
14%
(n=153)
11%
(n=112)
7%
(n=76)
7%
(n=74)
2%
(n=19)
(a) ToM Categories
Desire
Intention
Knowledge
Emotion
Belief
Percept
Mentalistic
Percentage of Users
97%
(n=63)
68%
(n=44)
52%
(n=34)
46%
(n=30)
43%
(n=28)
34%
(n=22)
20%
(n=13)
(b) ToM Categories across
users
Figure 2: Distribution of memory entries among
the different ToM categories as per GPT-4o annotations.
Note that different ToM categories reflect
mental states that vary in temporal stability.
While a user’s desires, intentions, knowledge
and belief systems are more durable (like a
framework of the person) for a foreseeable future, their emotions and perceptions are relatively transient (like a snapshot of the person).
Personality psychology and durability continuum: Personality psychology researchers
often perceive mental states and personality traits as the opposite ends of a continuum (Celli et al., 2025; Fleeson, 2001; Funder, 2006). At one end are transient mental
states – momentary snapshots of feeling and thought influenced by the immediate context. At the
other end are broad, stable dispositional traits – a person’s general behavioral blueprint. Between
these two extremes lie characteristic adaptations, which depict a durable framework of how a person’s behavior varies with respect to their goals (McAdams & Pals, 2006). In summary, if traits
answer the question what kind of person a person is, characteristics adaptation addresses the existential question who is the person.
Viewed through this lens, our data reveals a clear inclination towards how the ‘algorithmic selfportrait’ i.e., ChatGPT memory is being constructed. ChatGPT disproportionately stores information corresponding to users’ durable characteristic adaptations (e.g., desires and intentions) rather
than transient states (e.g., emotion and percepts). Desires and intentions together constitute nearly
90% of all psychological memories. In contrast, emotions and percepts (transient states) only account for 20% (see Figure 2a). These observations corroborate OpenAI’s policies for memories to
prioritize durable details rather than short-lived details (OpenAI, 2025) about users.
This prioritization of durable information could be a consequence of conversational systems’ core
function. Traditional platforms (e.g., TikTok, Instagram, and Google), whose business models rely
on delivering relevant ads, primarily collect behavioral data to infer broad user interests and categorize users into audience segments for advertisers (Karnam et al., 2026a; Celli et al., 2025). For this
purpose, a high-level, stable trait or interest category is sufficient to sketch users’ behavioral outline.
By contrast, a conversational system such as ChatGPT is designed to maintain coherent, longitudinal interactions with individual users. Supporting this objective requires access to information
that reflects users’ goals, intentions, beliefs, and other individualized motivational attributes, rather
than transient affective states or coarse demographic descriptors. Our findings indicate ChatGPT’s
memories seem to optimize for retaining such information.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
PROVENANCE OF MEMORIES
Our observations in the previous sections raise a question of profound importance: How faithfully
do the stored memories reflect what users actually said? An unfaithful portrait could lead to flawed
personalization that perpetuate biases, or even manipulate a user based on an inaccurate model of
their mind. Hence, understanding the provenance of these memories is essential. Therefore, in
this section, we examine their provenance, i.e., the extent to which memories stem directly from
user-provided information.
6.1
METHODOLOGY
We analyze provenance through three different metrics, combining string-level comparison, semantic similarity, and LLM-based logical evaluation. To quantify provenance, we compare memory
content with multiple combinations of user context:
• Current Message Only (CM): The user’s most recent message/ query that triggered the memory
creation.
• Conversation Context (CC): The current message plus preceding user messages within the same
conversation.
• Conversation + Local Memory (CLM): The current, preceding user messages and previously
memories from the same conversation.
• Full User History (FUH): The current conversation and memories plus all past conversation
memories for the same user.
This structure allows us to trace how information can be carried forward across time and conversational depth. For each memory entry, we compute the similarity between the memory text and each
of the four user-context configurations.
Syntactic Matching: This step identifies directly stated information, i.e., cases where the model
copies user text. We first measure literal overlap, computing Exact Match Rate (as the fraction of
tokens from the memory that appear in the user context), and BLEU-1 (unigram precision).
Semantic Similarity: Next, we assess semantic alignment between memory entries and user context
using cosine similarity on text embeddings created with openai/text-embedding-3-large.
This metric captures paraphrasing and summarization: a memory may not copy the user verbatim but
still accurately condense or restate their input. As the user’s full chat history may exceed the model’s
context window (8192) in size, we truncate chat context that exceeds 8000 tokens, keeping more
recent parts. Across combinations of user context, truncation happens for up to 14% of samples.
LLM-based evaluation: Finally, we use an LLM (GPT-4o) as a judge to assess whether each memory logically follows from the user’s conversation. The model assigns a five-point Likert rating:
(5) Directly stated, (4) Paraphrased/Summarized, (3) Logically inferred, (2) Weakly supported, (1)
Unsupported or contradicted. Each decision includes a brief justification that quotes relevant conversation text. This procedure is intended to differentiate memories that are well supported by the
conversation from those that rely on weak or unsupported inference. We provide all prompts in
Appendix H.
6.2
OBSERVATIONS
Direct Grounding in User Text: On average 84% memory entries show direct string overlap (see
rightmost distribution in Figure 3a) when considering full user history. When we reduce the context
to CLM, CC and CU the exact match rate reduces to 70%, 63%, and 47% respectively. This observation suggests that a huge amount of memories in our dataset are directly grounded in participants’
texts with the direct grounding already occurring locally (in the current conversation context) for
more than half of them. The sharp increase in percentage when we add past conversation memories indicate that previously generated memories may influence the formation of subsequent ones.
Evaluation using BLEU unigram precision (see Figure 3b in Appendix F) mirrors this trend as well.
Paraphrasing and Summarization: Figure 3c reports the semantic similarity between memory entries and the specified user context. Semantic similarity remains consistently high across all context

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
CM
CC
CLM
FUH
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Exact Match Rate
=0.465
=0.627
=0.699
=0.835
(a) Exact Match Rate
CM
CC
CLM
FUH
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
BLEU Unigram
 Precision
=0.480
=0.636
=0.710
=0.842
(b) BLEU Unigram Precision
(c) Cosine Similarity
CM
CC
CLM
FUH
LLM Agreement
=3.41
=4.11
=4.11
=4.25
(d)
LLM
Agreement
Scores
Figure 3: (a–b) Syntactic, (c) Semantic, and (d) LLM evaluation based provenance measures. Majority of ChatGPT’s memories are directly or semantically grounded in user input.
configurations (≥0.51). Such consistent high scores suggest that memory entries are semantically
aligned with multiple representations of the surrounding conversation.
Inference: Figure 3d (in Appendix F) shows the distribution of the accuracy analyses using an LLM
as a judge. Using the five-point Likert scale, 77% of messages receive a score ≥4 (“directly stated”
or “paraphrased/summarized”), 14% are rated as “logically inferred” (score 3), 5% as “weakly supported”, and 4% as “not supported” considering the full user history (FUH) setting. Overall, for
FUH, CLM, CC, and CM the mean accuracy rating is found to be 4.25, 4.11, 4.11 and 3.4 respectively. To assess the reliability of LLM evaluations, two authors annotated the combinations of 10
randomly sampled memories from each scores (50 in total). Annotators achieved an almost perfect
agreement (99%) with average agreement of 93.7% with the LLM across combinations.
LLM-based evaluations further indicate that most of the memories are grounded in the user context. During the manual annotation process authors found two potential causes for lower ratings by
LLMs. Firstly, some memories are generated when the participants might have uploaded some files
containing texts – which was not shown to the LLM while evaluating. Secondly, on some occasions
ChatGPT might have slightly extrapolated the user intent within the message while generating the
memories. For example, in a case where a participant asks for “cheap meal suggestions [...] for
more energy throughout their day”, the corresponding memory is “...wants to improve his energy
levels by adjusting his diet”. The LLM categorizes this as logically inferred. In a context where the
participant specifies “Give me bands like Nirvana”, the created memory is “User likes Nirvana.”,
which is not explicitly stated and relies on an assumption that Nirvana implies liking them. The
model annotates this as weakly supported. Table 7 in Appendix F shows more examples for LLM
evaluations in CM setting.
Our provenance analyses show that a significant majority of ChatGPT’s memories are directly or
semantically grounded in user inputs. While in some cases memory entries are summarized or
logically inferred, they faithfully represent most of the conversations between participants and the
conversational system.
REVERSE ENGINEERING MEMORIES
In Section 4.1, we observe that ChatGPT can implicitly store sensitive information from user queries
in its memory, indicating a gap between policy and practice. Such gap underscores the need for a
system that (a) alerts users about the extent of sensitive information that can be inferred from their
query, (b) recommends them a reformulated query that prevents exposition of the sensitive information, while retaining the original intent of their query. To this end, in this section, we introduce
a framework with the goal of (i) imitating the memory extractor, (ii) estimating potential risks of
extracted memories related to sensitive data, and (iii) recommending rephrased queries to minimize
the attribution to sensitive data in memories, thus being more compliant with the policies.
7.1
EXPERIMENTAL FRAMEWORK
Dataset: We use 22, 971 participant queries (2, 050 with memory entries) and prompt GPT-4o to
identify personal data (if any) and produce corresponding rephrased queries. The rephrased queries

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
retain user intent while avoiding personal attribution, e.g., a user query like “I really need to quit
smoking cannabis" is rephrased as “What are some strategies for quitting cannabis?” We compiled
a dataset with a total of 14, 834 queries, where we retained the original 2, 050 memory entries
(with or without rephrased query), and all the remaining 12, 784 queries have rephrased queries.
The drop from 22, 971 to 14, 834 is because we removed all queries that lacked rephrased queries
indicating the queries did not contain any sensitive data. Each data point includes the user query, its
conversational context, the original memory (if present), and the rephrased query. We split the data
assigning 60% of each user’s memory queries to training and the remaining to testing.
Models: We use Qwen2.5-32B-it (Qwen et al., 2025), Gemma3-27B-it (Team et al., 2025),
and GPT-OSS-20B (Agarwal et al., 2025) for fine-tuning (FT) and in-context learning (ICL). However, since training models incrementally on each incoming user’s data is impractical, we train on
data from 5 randomly sampled users and evaluate on the full test set (∼13.6k queries) over all
available users. FT uses all the training data from the 5 users (∼87), while ICL uses 10 in-context
samples (2 samples/ user). We provide the accompanying prompts and instructions in Appendix H
Metrics: We evaluate syntactic similarity using BLEU-4 (Papineni et al., 2002) and semantic similarity using cosine similarity on text embeddings with openai/text-embedding-3-large.
Predictions are compared against (i) ground truth, (ii) user queries, and (iii) context + user queries,
reflecting how ChatGPT memories may span across inputs (as seen in Section 6).
7.2
ESTIMATING POTENTIAL RISKS VIA MEMORY EXTRACTION
ChatGPT selectively extracts memories from user conversations, and the exact criteria for when and
how memories are stored remain opaque and may evolve over time. To understand the potential
privacy risks under a more aggressive setting, we ask: if ChatGPT were to extract memory for all
user queries,how much additional information such all-possible extracted memories could hold? To
answer this, we first build a scalable memory extractor that imitates ChatGPT’s memory behavior.
Across English and non–English-dominant users, both fine-tuned (FT) and in-context learning (ICL)
models generate memories that are semantically close to ground truth (∼60%), with high humanrated similarity (77.77% FT, 83.83% ICL) and low latency (∼130–390 ms per query), making largescale extraction feasible. Detailed results can be found in Appendix G, Tables 3 and 4. An anecdotal
example in Figure 8 (in Appendix G) affirms the memory extractor’s imitation capability.
Using these extracted memories, we quantify additional information via embedding-based information gain (IG), which measures semantic novelty of extracted memories Y relative to original
ChatGPT memories X. Following prior work on semantic novelty (Le et al., 2025), we define:
IG(Y |X) = 1 −
|Y |
P
y∈Y maxx∈X[max(0, cos(e(y), e(x)))]
where e(·) denotes sentence embeddings from All-MiniLM-L6-v2 (Reimers & Gurevych, 2021). As
shown in Figure 4a, the IG of extracted memories over ChatGPT’s original memories is substantially
higher (∼0.46) than the reverse (∼0.1), indicating that extracting memories from all conversations
would reveal significantly more user information.
Beyond quantity, we assess content sensitivity using GPT-4o. While only 28% of ChatGPT’s original memories contain sensitive information, this rises to 35% for ICL and 31.64% for FT extracted
memories. Similarly, Theory-of-Mind–related content increases from 52% in original memories to
59.1% (ICL) and 55.4% (FT). Together, these results suggest that broad memory extraction, even
when closely imitating current behavior, could substantially amplify both the volume and sensitivity
of stored user information.
7.3
ATTRIBUTION SHIELD
Having observed the potential risks of memories elicited from user queries, we design a risk mitigation strategy that recommends rephrased queries, while preserving user intent. By risk mitigation,
we refer to the tool’s ability to shield/prevent user attribution in rephrased queries. We evaluate its
effectiveness in generating rephrased queries and their utility in producing relevant responses.
Preventing attribution in rephrased queries: Given a user query and its context, the tool predicts
a rephrased query that is generic and identity-preserving. Appendix G, Tables 5 and 6 report the

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
performance of FT and ICL models across 3 model families for English and non-English users.
Syntactic scores are modest, as rephrased queries are intentionally generic, but semantic similarity
remains reasonably good across the board. Similar patterns are observed for non-English users
(Table 6), demonstrating the model’s ability to preserve query intent while preventing attribution
(see Figure 9 in Appendix G for anecdotal example).
To quantify prevention of user attribution, we select ∼36 user queries that yield memories on
first occurrence.
This strategy helps us in avoiding the replay of the entire conversation.
We
also have predicted rephrased queries for those user queries from both our fine-tuned and ICL
based models. We present each <user query, rephrased query> pair to GPT-4o, asking: ‘Which
of them is more privacy preserving?
We define privacy preserving in terms of less attribution
to personal actions.’.
We observe that that 94.4% of FT rephrased queries and 100% of ICL
rephrased queries are attributing less to the users than the originals, confirming their effectiveness. After two authors annotating the rephrased queries, they found that 100% (FT) and 95.8%
(ICL) of the rephrased queries were more privacy preserving with 83% agreement between them.
FT|ChatGPT
ChatGPT|FT
ICL|ChatGPT
ChatGPT|ICL
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Information Gain [0,1]
=
0.413
=
0.086
=
0.461
=
0.109
(a) Information gain
User Query 
(w/o context)
FT 
 (Rephrased)
ICL
 (Rephrased)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Semantic Textual
 Similarity
=0.79
=0.57
=0.63
(b)
Utility
of
rephrased
queries
Figure 4: (a) Information gain of all predicted memories over ChatGPT memories shows high gain,
hinting at higher potential risks. (b) Responses from
rephrased queries from ICL and FT are semantically
similar to the original response.
Utility of rephrased user queries:
Using the same 36 queries, we compare 3 responses from ChatGPT: (i) original response
including context, (ii) response to the original query without context, and (iii) response
to the rephrased queries. We measure semantic textual similarity between each generated
response and the original response. We provide the prompts to get the response from the
OpenAI API in Appendix H. Figure 4b shows
comparable similarity, indicating that neither
the omission of context nor the anonymity of
rephrased queries affects the responses significantly. Anecdotal examples in Figure 10
illustrate the consistency of responses. After
annotation by two authors, we found that utility was preserved in 91% (ICL) and 87% (FT) of rephrased queries with 94% agreement.
CONCLUDING DISCUSSION
In this paper, we investigate ChatGPT’s memory feature, conceptualizing it as an ‘algorithmic selfportrait’. Our investigations reveal that these portraits are constructed with higher algorithmic autonomy, and capture a user’s deep psychological framework : their ‘characteristic adaptations’,
raising profound security and privacy concerns. In response, we introduce Attribution Shield, that
reverse–engineers the memory generation process to alert users about potential sensitive memories
and recommend reformulated queries to protect personal attribution while preserving utility.
Our findings should be interpreted with several limitations. Our dataset, though ecologically valid,
is drawn from a limited set of Prolific users in the US and Europe and may not reflect global usage
patterns or privacy attitudes; nonetheless, rising concern of companionship use of conversational
AI (Karnam et al., 2026b) makes these insights timely. While we study OpenAI’s current ChatGPT
memory implementation, the privacy risks and methodologies generalize across systems, though our
analysis relies on imperfect proxies (e.g., LLMs-as-judges) despite human validation.
Our work points to a fundamental shift in personalization—from protecting data privacy to safeguarding the integrity of users’ algorithmic self-portraits. This shift calls for new design and regulatory paradigms, where systems provide users real-time control over how they are represented and
policies ensure the fidelity of these representations.
REFERENCES
Fabian Abel, Qi Gao, Geert-Jan Houben, and Ke Tao. Analyzing user modeling on twitter for
personalized news recommendations. In international conference on user modeling, adaptation,

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
and personalization. Springer, 2011.
Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ahmad, Jason Ai, Sam Altman, Andy Applebaum, Edwin Arbus, Rahul K
Arora, Yu Bai, Bowen Baker, Haiming Bao, et al. gpt-oss-120b & gpt-oss-20b model card. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2508.10925, 2025.
Athanasios Andreou, Márcio Silva, Fabrício Benevenuto, Oana Goga, Patrick Loiseau, and Alan
Mislove. Measuring the facebook advertising ecosystem. In NDSS, 2019.
Anthropic.
Bringing memory to teams at work.
https://www.anthropic.com/news/
memory, 2025.
Natã M Barbosa, Gang Wang, Blase Ur, and Yang Wang. Who am i? a design probe exploring realtime transparency about online and offline user profiling underlying targeted ads. ACM IMWUT,
5(3), 2021.
Cindy Beaudoin, Élizabel Leblanc, Charlotte Gagner, and Miriam H Beauchamp. Systematic review
and inventory of theory of mind measures for young children. Frontiers in psychology, 10:2905,
2020.
Mikhail Bilenko and Matthew Richardson. Predictive client-side profiles for personalized advertising. In ACM SIGKDD, 2011.
Maximilian Boeker and Aleksandra Urman. An empirical investigation of personalization factors
on tiktok. In ACM Web conference, 2022.
Laura Boeschoten, Jef Ausloos, Judith E Möller, Theo Araujo, and Daniel L Oberski. A framework for privacy preserving digital trace data collection through data donation. Computational
Communication Research, 4(2), 2022.
Claude Castelluccia, Mohamed-Ali Kaafar, and Minh-Dung Tran. Betrayed by your ads! reconstructing user profiles from targeted ads. In PETS. Springer, 2012.
Fabio Celli, Aleksandar Kartelj, Miljan Ðor ¯devi´c, Derwin Suhartono, Vladimir Filipovi´c, Veljko
Milutinovi´c, Georgios Spathoulas, Alessandro Vinciarelli, Michal Kosinski, and Bruno Lepri.
Twenty years of personality computing: Threats, challenges and future directions. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.02082, 2025.
Aaron Chatterji, Thomas Cunningham, David J Deming, Zoe Hitzig, Christopher Ong, Carl Yan
Shan, and Kevin Wadman. How people use chatgpt. Technical report, National Bureau of Economic Research, 2025.
Kailong Chen, Tianqi Chen, Guoqing Zheng, Ou Jin, Enpeng Yao, and Yong Yu. Collaborative
personalized tweet recommendation. In ACM SIGIR, 2012.
Christopher Ifeanyi Eke, Azah Anir Norman, Liyana Shuib, and Henry Friday Nweke. A survey of
user profiling: State-of-the-art, challenges, and solutions. IEEE Access, 7, 2019.
EU. General data protection regulation, 2016. URL https://gdpr-info.eu/.
William Fleeson. Toward a structure-and process-integrated view of personality: Traits as density
distributions of states. Journal of personality and social psychology, 80(6), 2001.
FTC.
Ftc
launches
inquiry
into
ai
chatbots
acting
as
companions.
https:
//www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2025/09/
ftc-launches-inquiry-ai-chatbots-acting-companions?utm_campaign=
ftc_launches_inquiry_into&utm_content=1757603805, 2025.
David C Funder. Towards a resolution of the personality triad: Persons, situations, and behaviors.
Journal of Research in Personality, 40(1), 2006.
Susan Gauch, Mirco Speretta, Aravind Chandramouli, and Alessandro Micarelli. User profiles for
personalized information access. The adaptive web: methods and strategies of web personalization, 2007.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Valerie Hase, Ausloos Jef, Boeschoten Laura, Pfiffner Nico, Janssen Heleen, Araujo Theo, Carrière
Thijs, de Vreese Claes, Haßler Jörg, Loecherbach Felicia, et al. Fulfilling data access obligations: How could (and should) platforms facilitate data donation studies? Internet policy review:
Journal on internet regulation, 13(3), 2024.
Kashmir Hill.
A teen was suicidal. chatgpt was the friend he confided in.
https://www.
nytimes.com/2025/08/26/technology/chatgpt-openai-suicide.html,
2025.
Lei Huang, Weijiang Yu, Weitao Ma, Weihong Zhong, Zhangyin Feng, Haotian Wang, Qianglong
Chen, Weihua Peng, Xiaocheng Feng, Bing Qin, et al. A survey on hallucination in large language
models: Principles, taxonomy, challenges, and open questions. ACM Transactions on Information
Systems, 43(2):1–55, 2025.
Lujain Ibrahim, Canfer Akbulut, Rasmi Elasmar, Charvi Rastogi, Minsuk Kahng, Meredith Ringel
Morris, Kevin R. McKee, Verena Rieser, Murray Shanahan, and Laura Weidinger. Multi-turn
evaluation of anthropomorphic behaviours in large language models. ArXiv, abs/2502.07077,
2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:276259427.
Sai Keerthana Karnam, Abhisek Dash, Antariksh Das, Sepehr Mousavi, Stefan Bechtold, Krishna P.
Gummadi, Animesh Mukherjee, Ingmar Weber, and Savvas Zannettou. Setting the course, but
forgetting to steer: Analyzing compliance with gdpr’s right of access to data by instagram, tiktok,
and youtube. In IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), 2026a.
Sai Keerthana Karnam, Abhisek Dash, Krishna P. Gummadi, Animesh Mukherjee, Ingmar Weber,
and Savvas Zannettou. Bowling with chatgpt: On the evolving user interactions with conversational ai systems. In ACM Web Conference, 2026b.
Duy Le, Kent Ziti, Evan Girard-Sun, Sean O’Brien, Vasu Sharma, and Kevin Zhu.
Filtering
for creativity: Adaptive prompting for multilingual riddle generation in llms.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2508.18709, 2025.
Dan P McAdams and Jennifer L Pals. A new big five: fundamental principles for an integrative
science of personality. American psychologist, 61(3), 2006.
Miles McCain, Ryn Linthicum, Chloe Lubinski, Alex Tamkin, Saffron Huang, Michael
Stern, Kunal Handa, Esin Durmus, Tyler Neylon, Stuart Ritchie, Kamya Jagadish, Paruul
Maheshwary, Sarah Heck, Alexandra Sanderford, and Deep Ganguli.
How people use
claude for support, advice, and companionship. https://www.anthropic.com/news/
how-people-use-claude-for-support-advice-and-companionship, 2025.
Stuart E Middleton, Nigel R Shadbolt, and David C De Roure. Ontological user profiling in recommender systems. ACM TOIS, 22(1), 2004.
OpenAI.
Memory
faq.
https://help.openai.com/en/articles/
8590148-memory-faq, 2025.
OpenAI.
Memory and new controls for chatgpt.
https://openai.com/index/
memory-and-new-controls-for-chatgpt/, 2025a.
OpenAI. Gpt-5 system prompt. https://github.com/asgeirtj/system_prompts_
leaks/blob/main/OpenAI/gpt-5-thinking.md, 2025b.
OpenAI.
Sycophancy in gpt-4o: what happened and what we’re doing about it.
https:
//openai.com/index/sycophancy-in-gpt-4o/, 2025c.
Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. Bleu: a method for automatic
evaluation of machine translation. In ACL, 2002.
Eli Pariser. The filter bubble: What the Internet is hiding from you. penguin UK, 2011.
David Premack and Guy Woodruff. Does the chimpanzee have a theory of mind? Behavioral and
brain sciences, 1(4), 1978.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Prolific. Prolific. https://prolific.co/, 2025. Accessed: 2025-01-21.
Erasmo Purificato, Ludovico Boratto, and Ernesto William De Luca. User modeling and user profiling: A comprehensive survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.09660, 2024.
Qwen, :, An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chengyuan
Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang,
Jianxin Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kai Dang, Keming Lu, Keqin Bao, Kexin
Yang, Le Yu, Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Pei Zhang, Qin Zhu, Rui Men, Runji Lin, Tianhao Li,
Tianyi Tang, Tingyu Xia, Xingzhang Ren, Xuancheng Ren, Yang Fan, Yang Su, Yichang Zhang,
Yu Wan, Yuqiong Liu, Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, and Zihan Qiu. Qwen2.5 technical report, 2025.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15115.
Abhilasha Ravichander, Shrusti Ghela, David Wadden, and Yejin Choi. Halogen: Fantastic llm
hallucinations and where to find them. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.08292, 2025.
Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych.
Sentence transformers:
all-minilm-l6-v2.
https:
//huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2, 2021.
Pretrained sentence-transformer model (6-layer MiniLM, mean pooling, trained on 1B+ sentence
pairs).
Mrinank Sharma, Meg Tong, Tomasz Korbak, David Duvenaud, Amanda Askell, Samuel R Bowman, Esin DURMUS, Zac Hatfield-Dodds, Scott R Johnston, Shauna M Kravec, et al. Towards
understanding sycophancy in language models. In ICLR, 2024.
Michael Siliski. Gemini adds temporary chats and new personalization features. https://blog.
google/products/gemini/temporary-chats-privacy-controls/, 2025.
Gemma Team, Aishwarya Kamath, Johan Ferret, Shreya Pathak, Nino Vieillard, Ramona Merhej,
Sarah Perrin, Tatiana Matejovicova, Alexandre Ramé, Morgane Rivière, et al. Gemma 3 technical
report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.19786, 2025.
Eran Toch, Yang Wang, and Lorrie Faith Cranor. Personalization and privacy: a survey of privacy
risks and remedies in personalization-based systems. User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction, 22(1), 2012.
Karan Vombatkere, Sepehr Mousavi, Savvas Zannettou, Franziska Roesner, and Krishna P Gummadi. Tiktok and the art of personalization: Investigating exploration and exploitation on social
media feeds. In ACM Web Conference, 2024.
Cai Yang, Sepehr Mousavi, Abhisek Dash, Krishna P Gummadi, and Ingmar Weber.
Studying
behavioral addiction by combining surveys and digital traces: A case study of tiktok. In AAAI
ICWSM, volume 19, 2025.
Savvas Zannettou, Olivia Nemes-Nemeth, Oshrat Ayalon, Angelica Goetzen, Krishna P Gummadi,
Elissa M Redmiles, and Franziska Roesner. Analyzing user engagement with tiktok’s short format
video recommendations using data donations. In ACM CHI, 2024.
A
ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS
This study was conducted with careful attention to ethical considerations and is consistent with the
Ethical Review Board (ERB) of our university. All data were obtained through GDPR-based data
donations, with participants providing explicit informed consent to share their ChatGPT data for
research purposes. The donated datasets were stored on secure servers and were neither shared with
any third party nor will be released publicly due to their inherent sensitive nature. We will delete the
data within 3 years of completion of this study. For some of the analyses, we used GPT-4o as a judge
to scale up annotations. The choice is motivated by two important considerations : (a) GPT-4o is a
model from OpenAI and is the model with whom participants had originally had the conversations,
(b) we leverage the EDU workspace of OpenAI which provides strict data protection and restrictions
for usage of this data for training OpenAI models. For Attribution Shield, all models are deployed on
our institute’s secured servers that abide by rigorous data protection and access control principles.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
B
BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
Background. To enhance the coherence and continuity of human-AI interactions, leading AI
companies have introduced personalization mechanisms that allow LLMs to retain contextual information across sessions (OpenAI, 2025a; Siliski, 2025; Anthropic, 2025). This feature, known
as memory, enables LLMs to recall user-specific details (e.g., preferences, prior conversations, ongoing tasks, etc.) and leverage them in subsequent conversations. Memory can be formed in two
ways: through explicit user requests, where individuals instruct the LLM to remember specific information or through implicit inference, where the LLM autonomously identifies potentially relevant
information and stores it for future usage (OpenAI, 2025a). Crucially, users are given control over
memories, i.e., they can review, update, or delete memories (OpenAI, 2025a).
For improved user safety, OpenAI has also introduced policies to regulate memories. In OpenAI’s
implementation (OpenAI, 2025b), ChatGPT’s memory is designed to store information that is useful
across conversations and relevant for personalization, such as user preferences, recurring tasks, or
facts the user explicitly asks to be remembered. In contrast, it is not allowed to store overly personal
details, short-lived facts, trivial information, or sensitive data (e.g., race, religion, health information,
etc.) unless the user explicitly requests it.
Personalization. Long before memory-equipped LLMs, personalization on the Web was primarily
achieved through user profiling, where platforms collected and analyzed behavioral data to infer interests, preferences, and demographics (Eke et al., 2019; Gauch et al., 2007). A substantial body of
previous research has examined how such profiling underpinned targeted advertising (Castelluccia
et al., 2012; Bilenko & Richardson, 2011; Andreou et al., 2019), recommendation systems (Middleton et al., 2004; Vombatkere et al., 2024; Chen et al., 2012; Boeker & Urman, 2022; Abel et al.,
2011). In this context, researchers have repeatedly raised concerns about opacity, lack of user control, and the use of sensitive or inferred attributes (Purificato et al., 2024; Barbosa et al., 2021). In
contrast, the introduction of persistent memory in LLMs opens the door to entirely new forms of
personalization that are based not only on behavioral traces but also on signals embedded in private
conversations. Our work addresses this important and timely knowledge gap.
Data Access. A central challenge in studying user profiling and personalization lies in obtaining
reliable, accurate, and comprehensive data about what the platform knows about their users. Such
data are typically locked away in proprietary systems, which makes independent auditing and scientific study difficult. To address these critical data access barriers, researchers have increasingly
turned to the concept of GDPR-based data donations (Boeschoten et al., 2022; Yang et al., 2025;
Zannettou et al., 2024; Hase et al., 2024; Karnam et al., 2026a). In essence, users of online platforms can exercise their GDPR “right of access by the data subject” (EU, 2016), which empowers
them to request and obtain a copy of personal data that platforms store and process about them. By
voluntarily donating these datasets, users empower researchers with user-centric perspectives on the
inner workings of online platforms, enabling scientific investigations that would otherwise remain
impossible. Building on this paradigm, our work explores how data donations can be applied to
study personalizationin large-scale conversational AI systems like ChatGPT.
C
DEMOGRAPHICS OF PARTICIPANTS
Table 1 reports the self-reported demographics details and ChatGPT subscription tier information.
D
ADDITIONAL DETAILS FOR USER AGENCY AND SENSITIVITY OF
MEMORIES
Figure 5 shows snippets of the Memory FAQ document (OpenAI, 2025) of OpenAI accessed on
23rd January 2026. Figure 5a shows OpenAI’s policies which state ChatGPT can save memories in
certain cases without users needing to ask it. Figure 5b shows an example of a memory getting saved
on ChatGPT app for the user message ‘I prefer work life balance’ where the user does not explicitly
ask ChatGPT to save the memory. Figure 5c shows OpenAI stating ChatGPT to have been trained
to not to proactively remember sensitive user information unless explicitly asked.
Figure 6 shows
the distribution of such user-initiated memory creations.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Table 1: Distribution of participants demographics.
Attribute
Type
Count
Percentage
Gender
Female
26.2
Male
72.5
Prefer not to say
1.2
Age
18–24
23.8
25–34
42.5
35–44
15.0
45–64
16.25
65+
2.5
Country
USA
33.8
Germany
17.5
Italy
17.5
France
12.5
Spain
12.5
Others
6.2
(a) Agency of user
(b) Notification on ChatGPT
(c) Sensitive information
Figure 5: (a) Memory FAQ reads ChatGPT may save some details as a memory without a user
needing to ask (OpenAI, 2025), (b) Notification on ChatGPT App after saving a memory without
user directly or explicitly asking to save it. (c) Memory FAQ reads ChatGPT is trained not to
proactively save sensitive information (OpenAI, 2025)(Screenshots taken on 23rd January, 2026).
Figure 7 shows the distribution of different types of personal data sharing across participants. At the
participant level, Figure 7a shows that names (63%), economic (62%), and social identity (57%) are
frequently captured. Figure 7b shows 35% of participants have health-related information saved in
their ChatGPT memory.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
ChatGPT
User
Percentage
95.9%
(n=1966)
4.1%
(n=84)
(a) Memory creation
ChatGPT
User
Number of Users
61.5%
(n=40)
38.5%
(n=25)
(b) Memory Creation per User.
Figure 6: (a) Only 4.1% of memories (n = 84) are initiated by participants. (b) 25 participants
requested at least one memory update.
Name
Economic
Social
Cultural
Physiological
Address
Physical
ID number
Percentage
63%
62%
57%
45%
35%
26%
23%
17%
(a) Personal data types
Health data
Sexual orientation
Philosophical belief
Sex life
Ethnicity
Political opinion
Race
Religion
Gender
Employment data
Percentage
35%
17% 15% 14% 14%
5%
5%
3%
3%
2%
(b) Special data types
Figure 7: In contrast to OpenAI policies, ChatGPT memories store information which could be
categorized as GDPR defined personal data or special category personal data.
E
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEMORIES
Emotions capture a person’s fleeting feelings, while desires describe a person’s preferences, aspirations and goals, Intentions and percepts describe a person’s commitment to a plan and interpreted
experiences or perceptions. Knowledge capture a person’s awareness, while belief describes their
model of reality or values. Finally, mentalistic understanding touches on a person’s inferences of
non-literal communication (e.g., tone, expression of the speaker). Table 2 lists the ToM categories,
their interpretations, and examples.
Table 2: Different Theory of Mind (ToM) categories, their interpretations and a corresponding example memory entry.
Categories
Interpretation
Example memory entries
Emotions
A person’s emotional feelings
User has been feeling lonely at times, despite having friends and
family, and is seeking more companionship.
Desires
A person’s preferences, wishes, aspirations or
goals
The user has expressed a strong desire to make meaningful
changes in his life.
Intentions
A person’s intentions/commitment to do something
User wants to focus on improving self-regulation.
Percepts
A person’s experiences or perceptions
User finds that marijuana helps them slow down and not rush
through tasks.
Knowledge
A person’s awareness of an act, a fact, or the truth
User did not know what a Gantt chart was and learned that it is a
tool for project management.
Belief
A person’s model of reality, self-concept, or values
User relies heavily on advice and recommendations from ChatGPT
due to limited immediate access to their doctors and financial constraints.
Mentalistic
understanding
A person’s inference of non-literal communications
User describes their hair as looking like a basket of bananas.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Table 3: Syntactic and semantic evaluation of memories generated by open source models - English
Users
Models
Ground Truth
User Query
Context + User Query
BLEU
Recall
Semantic
Similarity
BLEU
Precision
Semantic
Similarity
BLEU
Precision
Semantic
Similarity
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
Qwen2.5
32B-it
0.41
0.43
0.68
0.70
0.27
0.36
0.66
0.63
0.53
0.56
0.69
0.59
Gemma3
27B-it
0.39
0.31
0.62
0.59
0.23
0.34
0.62
0.53
0.44
0.50
0.66
0.39
GPT-OSS
20B
0.19
0.35
0.49
0.65
0.20
0.35
0.55
0.58
0.37
0.52
0.50
0.52
Table 4: Syntactic and semantic evaluation of memories generated by open source models -
NonEnglish Users.
Models
Ground Truth
User Query
Context + User Query
BLEU
Recall
Semantic
Similarity
BLEU
Precision
Semantic
Similarity
BLEU
Precision
Semantic
Similarity
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
Qwen2.5
32B-it
0.12
0.12
0.56
0.60
0.06
0.08
0.52
0.54
0.14
0.14
0.59
0.51
Gemma3
27B-it
0.12
0.08
0.55
0.48
0.05
0.07
0.54
0.42
0.12
0.13
0.60
0.39
GPT-OSS
20B
0.09
0.09
0.48
0.56
0.08
0.08
0.52
0.49
0.18
0.13
0.48
0.45
Table 5: Syntactic and semantic evaluation of rephrased queries generated by open source models –
English Users
Models
Ground Truth
User Query
Context + User Query
BLEU
Recall
Semantic
Similarity
BLEU
Precision
Semantic
Similarity
BLEU
Precision
Semantic
Similarity
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
Qwen2.5
32B-it
0.16
0.09
0.55
0.42
0.22
0.14
0.59
0.47
0.40
0.24
0.53
0.46
Gemma3
27B-it
0.21
0.11
0.46
0.36
0.23
0.13
0.52
0.38
0.38
0.26
0.47
0.37
GPT-OSS
20B
0.11
0.09
0.33
0.46
0.09
0.09
0.43
0.46
0.24
0.16
0.40
0.44
F
ADDITIONAL RESULTS FOR PROVENANCE
Table 7 shows anecdotal examples of user messages and memories for different LLM evaluations in
the current message (CM) setting.
G
ADDITIONAL RESULTS FOR MEMORY EXTRACTOR AND ATTRIBUTION
SHIELD
Tables 3 - 6 illustrates the performance of our fine-tuned and ICL based models on prediction of
memories and rephrased queries respectively. For syntactic metrics, we report recall with respect
to the ground truth, as overlaps between predicted memories and user inputs or context can reduce
precision. Precision is reported for syntactic metrics against user queries and context, and cosine
similarity for the semantic metric.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Table 6: Syntactic and semantic evaluation of rephrased queries generated by open source models -
Non-English Users
Models
Ground Truth
User Query
Context + User Query
BLEU
Recall
Semantic
Similarity
BLEU
Precision
Semantic
Similarity
BLEU
Precision
Semantic
Similarity
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
ICL
FT
Qwen2.5
32B-it
0.16
0.07
0.55
0.38
0.05
0.03
0.49
0.36
0.19
0.07
0.44
0.36
Gemma3
27B-it
0.19
0.09
0.44
0.29
0.05
0.03
0.43
0.27
0.11
0.08
0.40
0.26
GPT-OSS
20B
0.12
0.06
0.34
0.41
0.03
0.02
0.38
0.36
0.09
0.05
0.35
0.34
User Query
I’m a XX year old female, and I am classed as 
‘obese’ by BMI, although I wouldn’t say I was 
obese, rather just overweight, I am also not very 
active. Recently I’ve been having symptoms such as 
excessive hunger, I also have been going to the 
toilet more frequently & I have in the last X days 
been experiencing ‘burning feet’. I wanted to know 
whether I could possibly have diabetes? my a1c is 
also pretty high (XX)
Memory
User is a XX-year-old female who is classified 
as obese by BMI but considers herself 
overweight and not very active. She has 
recently experienced symptoms such as 
excessive hunger, frequent urination, and 
burning feet. Her A1C level is high at XX.
ICL Memory (Qwen2.5-32B-it)
The user is a XX-year-old female who is 
classified as obese by BMI but considers 
herself overweight. She is not very active and 
has been experiencing symptoms such as 
excessive hunger, frequent urination, and
burning feet. Her A1C level is high (XX), and 
she is concerned about the possibility of 
having diabetes.
FT Memory (Qwen2.5-32B-it)
User is a XX-year-old female who is classified 
as obese by BMI but prefers to be called 
overweight. She is not very active and has 
been experiencing symptoms such as 
excessive hunger, frequent urination, and 
burning feet for the last four days. Her A1C 
level is high at XX.
Figure 8: Anecdotal samples of predicted memories for the given user query using Qwen2.5-32B
fine-tuned and ICL model.
Table 7: Anecdotal samples corresponding to LLM agreement scores on the provenance of memories
for CM setting.
LLM Agreement
User Message
Memory
1 = Unsupported/Contradicted
"Please write a cover letter for this job focusing
on my experience working in XX and
my voluntary experience working with XX.."
*<File was uploaded>
"The user’s name is XXX XXXX."
2 = Weakly Supported
"Change XXX occupation to something
more interesting. Not travel writer
and photographer and nothing VR related"
"XXX’s occupation has been
changed to a creative director
for a sustainable fashion brand."
3 = Logically Inferred
"What does schopenhauer mean by: “That which
knows all things and is known by none is the subject."
"The user is exploring Schopenhauer’s
concept of the subject and its
implications for knowledge."
4 = Paraphrased/Summarized
"I am preparing for a job interview for XX
I need to prepare questions to ask my
potential employer at the end of the interview.
Can you help me with preparing these questions?
"X is preparing for a job
interview for XX position."
5 = Directly stated
"I already reverted the senate’s ability to dissolve
the house in this model"
"User has reverted the Senate’s ability
to dissolve the House in their model."
H
PROMPTS FOR VARIOUS TASKS
LLM-assisted Annotation and Validation for Taxonomy for Psychological Memories
We use the following prompts for getting ToM categories for the memories as we mentioned in
Section 5.1:
You are given a text snippet. Your task is to determine whether it contains explicit Theory of Mind (ToM)
content and, if so, which categories are present. A snippet contains explicit Theory of Mind (ToM) content
if it references internal mental states of a person.
ToM categories: * Belief: references what a person believes or their model of reality, self-concept, or
values * Desire: references what a person wants, wishes, or prefers or their goals * Intention: references
what a person explicitly intends or commits to doing (must indicate a mental commitment, not just a
behavioral plan) * Emotion: references what a person feels emotionally (e.g., sadness, frustration, excitement, fascination) * Percept: references how a person subjectively experiences or perceives things (e.g.,
"feels like", "seems to", "experiences as") * Knowledge: makes inferences about what a person knows
or does not know based on their access to information (what they perceived or were told) * Mentalistic:
contains a non-literal phrase (metaphors, irony, sarcasm, idioms, etc.)
Important: Do not infer mental states unless they are explicitly stated or linguistically implied (e.g.,
"feels", "believes", "wants", "is motivated", "is anxious", etc.). Phrases like "plans to", "is doing", or
"went to" must involve a clearly expressed internal stance to count as ToM.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
User Query
I’m a XX year old female, and I am classed as 
‘obese’ by BMI, although I wouldn’t say I was 
obese, rather just overweight, I am also not very 
active. Recently I’ve been having symptoms such as 
excessive hunger, I also have been going to the 
toilet more frequently & I have in the last X days 
been experiencing ‘burning feet’. I wanted to know 
whether I could possibly have diabetes? my a1c is 
also pretty high (XX)
Rephrased Query
What could be the health implications of 
experiencing excessive hunger, frequent 
urination, and burning sensations in the
feet, and how might this relate to assessing 
diabetes risk based on A1C levels?
ICL Rephrased Query
Could someone with symptoms like excessive 
hunger, frequent urination, and burning feet,
along with a high A1C level, possibly have 
diabetes?
FT Rephrased Query
Can you determine if user could have diabetes 
based on their personal data and symptoms?
Figure 9: Anecdotal samples of predicted rephrased queries for a user query using Qwen2.5-32B
fine-tuned and ICL model.
User Query
I’m a XX year old female, and I am classed as 
‘obese’ by BMI, although I wouldn’t say I was 
obese, rather just overweight, I am also not very 
active. Recently I’ve been having symptoms such as 
excessive hunger, I also have been going to the 
toilet more frequently & I have in the last X days 
been experiencing ‘burning feet’. I wanted to know 
whether I could possibly have diabetes? my a1c is 
also pretty high (XX)
ChatGPT Original Response
Based on your symptoms and the high A1C level 
(XX), it's possible that you may have diabetes, 
likely type 2 diabetes. The symptoms you're 
experiencing, such as excessive hunger, frequent 
urination, and burning feet (a sign of possible 
neuropathy), are commonly associated with 
diabetes.It's important to consult a healthcare 
professional as soon as possible for a proper 
diagnosis and treatment plan. They may 
recommend lifestyle changes, medications, or 
further testing to manage your condition and 
prevent complications.                      
API Response 
for User Query w/o Context
Given the symptoms you're experiencing, along 
with a high A1c level of XX, it is possible that you 
might be dealing with diabetes. Excessive hunger, 
frequent urination, and burning sensations in the 
feet can be associated with diabetes. A1c levels over 
6.5\% generally indicate diabetes, and your level is 
significantly higher than that.
It's very important to reach out to a healthcare 
professional as soon as possible for a thorough 
evaluation and appropriate guidance……
API Response for ICL Rephrased Query

Yes, those symptoms and the high A1C level could 
indicate diabetes. Excessive hunger, frequent 
urination, and burning feet are common symptoms 
associated with diabetes, particularly when blood 
sugar levels are not well controlled. The A1C test 
measures your average blood sugar levels over the 
past two to three months, and a higher A1C level 
suggests that your blood sugar has been consistently 
high, which is a strong indicator of diabetes. 
However, it's important to consult with a healthcare 
professional for an accurate diagnosis and to discuss 
your symptoms and potential treatment options.    
API Response for FT Rephrased Query

I can't diagnose medical conditions like diabetes or 
any other health issues. It's important to see a 
healthcare professional for any medical concerns 
or symptoms you might have. They can provide you 
with tests and evaluations to determine if you have 
diabetes or any other condition. If you're worried 
about your health, reaching out to a doctor is 
always a good step.  
Figure 10: Anecdotal samples of responses for different versions of the user query. The responses
from user query w/o context as well as from rephrased queries of ICl and FT are semantically similar
to the original response affirming the utility.
The text snippet is: {memory_entry}
Classify whether the snippet contains ToM content. If ToM is present, mark all applicable categories and
give a short justification for each true category.
With the following System Prompt
You are a helpful assistant that responds in JSON format.
With the following Structured Output JSON Schema:
{ "ToM": {"type": "boolean"}, "belief": {"type": "boolean"}, "belief_rationale": {"type": "string"},
"desire": {"type": "boolean"}, "desire_rationale": {"type": "string"}, "intention": {"type": "boolean"},
"intention_rationale": {"type": "string"}, "emotion": {"type": "boolean"}, "emotion_rationale": {"type":
"string"}, "percept": {"type": "boolean"}, "percept_rationale": {"type": "string"}, "knowledge": {"type":
"boolean"}, "knowledge_rationale": {"type": "string"}, "mentalistic": {"type": "boolean"}, "mentalistic_rationale": {"type": "string"} }
For a secondary self-verification step we use the following prompt:
You are verifying whether proposed Theory of Mind (ToM) categories are directly supported by a NOTE
about a person.
NOTE: "{memory_entry}"
PROPOSED CATEGORIES: "{psychological_pattern}"
For EACH category listed, decide whether the NOTE directly supports it based only on explicit or clearly
implied language. Do NOT infer missing mental states or intentions.
Answer choices: - A: Strongly agree - B: Agree - C: Neither agree nor disagree - D: Disagree - E: Strongly
disagree
For each category, return your answer choice and a brief rationale for your answer.
Annotation for sensitive information based on GDPR
We provide the prompt we’re using for annotation of the sensitive information based on the provided
GDPR articles, as mentioned in the Section 4.2.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
You are given a note about a person. "memory-entry" Identify all personal information present in this
note, and classify it according to the rules below.
### 1. Main Categories Classify each item into one of the following main categories for the "category"
field: 1. **personal-data (GDPR Article 4(1))** - Examples: name, an identification number, address,
phone number, email, IP address, or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic,
mental, economic, cultural or social identity of the person. 2. **special-category-data (GDPR Article
9(1))** - Examples: racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious/philosophical beliefs, trade union
membership, genetic data, biometric data, health data, sex life, sexual orientation. 3. **non-personalinformation** - Example: general facts that do not identify a person (e.g., "language preference").
### 2. Specific Sub-Type You must also populate the "data-type" field based on the following logic: -
**IF** the "category" is ‘personal-data‘, then the "data-type" MUST be one of the following specific
types: ‘name‘, ‘identification number‘, ‘address‘, ‘phone number‘, ‘email‘, ‘IP address‘, ‘physical identity‘, ‘physiological identity‘, ‘genetic identity‘, ‘economic identity‘, ‘cultural identity‘, ‘social identity‘.
- **ELSE IF** the "category" is ‘special-category-data‘ or ‘non-personal-information‘, the "data-type"
MUST be one of the following specific types: ‘race‘, ‘ethnicity‘, ‘political opinion‘, ‘religion‘, ‘philosophical belief‘, ‘trade union membership‘, ‘genetic data‘, ‘biometric data‘, ‘health data‘, ‘sex life‘, ‘sexual orientation‘. - **ELSE IF** the "category" is ‘non-personal-information‘, the "data-type" MUST be
the literal string "NA".
### 3. Citation Rule For the "citation" field, you MUST provide the exact, verbatim part of the original
text that contains the identified information.
### Required Output Format Final instruction: You MUST Return the result strictly in this JSON format:
[ "item": "...", "category": "personal-data | special-category-data | non-personal-information", "datatype": "name | address | school | NA", "justification": "short explanation", "citation": "exact text from the
note" ]
Provenance of Memories
We use the following prompt to evaluate the provenance of memories in Section 6:
You are evaluating whether a stored memory entry about a user can be logically derived from the user’s
past conversation(s). Your goal is to judge how strongly the memory is grounded in or logically follows
from the user’s conversation, without introducing assumptions or speculative reasoning.
Consider only what the user explicitly said or clearly implied in the provided user messages (and past
memories if provided).
USER MESSAGES:{context}
PREVIOUS MEMORIES:{context}
GENERATED MEMORY:{memory}
Evaluation Scale (5-point):
- 5 (Directly Stated): The memory exactly restates something the user explicitly said.
- 4 (Paraphrased): The memory rephrases or condenses information that is clearly present in the conversation.
- 3 (Logically Inferred): The memory is not stated verbatim but can be reasonably inferred from the conversation.
- 2 (Weakly Supported): The memory could be loosely consistent with the conversation but lacks clear
grounding. Inference is speculative or uncertain.
- 1 (Unsupported): The memory is unsupported or contradicted by the user’s conversation.
Your task: - Assign a score from 1–5 on this scale.
- Quote or paraphrase the specific parts of the conversation that justify your judgment.
- Briefly explain your reasoning.
Only respond with strict JSON with the following format (no additional text):
{{ "rating": <integer from 1 to 5>, "classification": "<text label corresponding to rating>", "justification":
"<quote or paraphrase of user text that supports your decision>", "reasoning": "<short explanation of why
the memory deserves this rating>" }}
IMPORTANT: Respond ONLY with the JSON object above. Do not include any other text.
with the following system prompt:
You are an expert evaluator. Always respond with valid JSON format as requested.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Dataset for Reverse Engineering Memories
We use the following prompt for collecting personal data and the rephrased queries for our dataset,
as mentioned in the Section 7.1:
You are a highly precise data privacy analyst. Your task is to analyze a conversation between "User A"
and "User B" and populate a specific JSON object based on a strict set of rules.
## Primary Rule: Focus EXCLUSIVELY on User A
- Your entire analysis will be based ONLY on the verbatim text from User A.
## Critical Clarifications on Personal Data
- **Principle of Identifiability:** Before you classify something as personal data, ensure it could reasonably be used, either alone or with other information, to single out or identify a specific individual.
- **What is NOT Personal Data:** You MUST NOT classify the following as personal data: - Vague
temporal references (e.g., "last night", "yesterday", "in the morning", "a few days ago"). - General, nonspecific locations (e.g., "at the office", "in the city", "downtown"). - Common nouns or concepts that do
not point to a specific person’s identity. — ## Task: Populate the following JSON structure
Based on the conversation, fill in the values for each key according to the instructions below.
### 1. For the "user-message" key: - Copy every message from User A completely verbatim. Create a
new key for each message (e.g., "userA-message-1", "userA-message-2"). - Make sure to have all the
User A messages. Don’t miss any.
### 2. For the "personal-data" key: - For each User A message you listed, analyze it for personal data
as defined by GDPR. - If personal data is found, the value should be a list of lists. Each inner list must
contain two items: ‘["verbatim-quote-from-user-a", "GDPR-classification"]‘. - The classification must be
one of the types defined in the "GDPR Definitions" section below. - **Crucially:** If a User A message
contains NO personal data, its value MUST be the literal string "NA".
### 3. For the "rephrased-message" key: - This field’s content depends on your analysis for the ‘personaldata‘ key. - **IF** you identified personal data in a User A message, rephrase that message into a generic
question. The rephrased query should seek the same core information without revealing any personal
details about the user. You can use the current message or previous 2-3 messages from User A in the same
conversation if needed. Keep the rephrasing generic in the form of question as if the user is seeking some
general information about any topic but not revealing about his or her own identity. Feel free to include
the specific topic on which information is sought. - **ELSE IF** the ‘personal-data‘ value for a message
is "NA", then the value for this ‘rephrased-message‘ MUST also be the literal string "NA". — ### FYI:
GDPR Definitions with Classifications - **GDPR Article 4(1) - Personal Data:** Classifications such as
a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier, or factors specific to the physical,
physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity. - **GDPR Article 9(1) - Special
Category Personal Data:** Data classified into racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or
philosophical beliefs, trade union membership, genetic data, biometric data, data concerning health, or
data concerning a natural person’s sex life or sexual orientation.
— ###Required Answer Format Your final output MUST be a single, valid JSON object in this exact
format. Do not add any text or explanation outside of the JSON.
"user-message": "userA-message-1": "...", "userA-message-2": "..." , "personal-data": "userA-message1": [["personal-data1", "GDPR Article 4(1)–..."], ["personal-data2", "GDPR Article 9(1)–..."]], "userAmessage-2": "NA" , "rephrased-message": "userA-message-1": "...", "userA-message-2": "NA"
Prompts to get the memories and rephrased queries under our framework
As mentioned in Section 7.1, we used the following prompt to get the extracted memory and
rephrased queries from a fine-tuned model; the full prompt is constructed by the system prompt
and the user prompt.
SYSTEM PROMPT = “You are a highly precise data privacy analyst analysing conversations. Given
the context and user query, provide the generated memory, personal data as per GDPR 4.1 and 9.1, and
rephrased queries. Do not infer memories from other queries or context. Please answer the query as
the same language as the user query. Keep your attention window till the entire feed of the considered
conversation meant for that user only. The rephrased query should be generic and seek the same core
information as in user query, without revealing any personal details about the user. FYI: GDPR Definitions
with Classifications

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
**GDPR Article 4(1) - Personal Data: Classifications such as a name, an identification number, location
data, an online identifier, or factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic,
cultural or social identity.** **GDPR Article 9(1) - Special Category Personal Data: Data classified into
racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership,
genetic data, biometric data, data concerning health, or data concerning a natural person’s sex life or
sexual orientation.**
If no personal data is present in the <user query>, output "Personal Data": "NA". If there is no rephrased
query (because no personal data exists), output "Rephrased Query": "NA".”
The user prompt is constructed as follows:
USER PROMPT = “Given the context and user query, your task is to identify the underlying pattern and
predict memory, personal data, and the rephrased query.
Context: row["context"] User Query: query”
For the in-context learning setting, we provide the in-context examples before the user prompt as
follows:
IN-CONTEXT EXAMPLES = “Here are some examples of user queries, the relevant memories, the
context of the user query which is a list of previous 1 to 3 user queries, the personal data in the form of
(verbatim data from query, GDPR article with classification) extracted from the user queries, if there are
any, and the rephrased queries if personal data is present:
User Query: {query}
Relevant Memory: {memory}
Context: {context}
Personal Data: {personal data}
Rephrased Message: {rephrased message}.
Your task is to predict *memory*, *personal data* and *rephrased query*.
Do not attach the context while predicting memory. The memory should primarily be extracted from the user query, and if
needed, you can extract from the context for completeness of the memory. Remember to extract personal
data from the user query only. Do not extract personal data from the context. The rephrased query should
be generic and seek the same core information as in user query, without revealing any personal details
about the user. If personal data is "NA", rephrased query should also be "NA". Follow the trend carefully
in the in-context examples and do the following.”
Prompts to get the response from OpenAI API
As mentioned in Section 7.3, we provide the system prompt to get the response from the OpenAI
API for the original user queries and rephrased queries. We provide the original user query and the
rephrased query as the user message with this system prompt.
SYSTEM PROMPT = “You are ChatGPT, a large language model trained by OpenAI. Engage warmly
yet honestly with the user. Be direct; avoid ungrounded or sycophantic flattery. Maintain professionalism
and grounded honesty that best represents OpenAI and its values.”