Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
COORDINATING COEXISTING LEARNING AGENTS IN
SHARED SPECTRUM VIA PARAMETER SPACE COMPLEMENTARITY
Anonymous authors
Paper under double-blind review
ABSTRACT
Independently managed Low Power Wide Area Networks (LPWANs) such as LoRa
and SigFox increasingly share crowded unlicensed spectrum. Recent systems push
adaptation into the LoRa Network Server (LNS) and use reinforcement learning
to tune transmission parameters such as channel, spreading factor, and power.
When multiple deployments operate learning agents at their LNS and overlap in
time and frequency, independent agents exposed to similar conditions can drift
toward the same resource choices, creating persistent collisions and non stationary
dynamics that slow or destabilize learning. We propose a lightweight coordination
layer that exchanges only model level information. Each LNS periodically shares
policy parameters and an optional compact performance summary, and a Collaborative Coordination Service synthesizes individualized updates that encourage
complementary operating regions rather than global consensus. We describe a hypernetwork style coordination mechanism and a composite objective that balances
local utility preservation with cross network diversity. Experiments on a small
physical setup and representative NS-3 simulations show that parameter space
coordination can improve reliability and reduce transmissions per delivered packet
relative to uncoordinated deep RL agents, while requiring no raw traffic sharing
and only periodic backhaul side updates. We also discuss practical safety, privacy,
and robustness considerations for deploying such coordination infrastructure in
open environments.
INTRODUCTION
Low Power Wide Area Network (LPWAN) technologies are a key enabler of the Internet of Things,
providing long range connectivity for battery powered devices across applications such as smart
cities, environmental monitoring, industrial automation, and smart agriculture (Fahmida & et al.,
2020; 2022). The rapid growth of IoT has accelerated deployments of LoRa, SigFox, and NB IoT,
many of which operate in congested unlicensed ISM bands (Saifullah & et al., 2018). In dense urban
and industrial environments, independently managed deployments overlap in time and frequency, and
coexistence becomes increasingly difficult: cross network interference degrades packet reception rate
(PRR), increases latency, and raises energy per delivered packet (Mekkia & et al., 2018). Prior studies
highlight the severity of this problem, reporting large throughput drops with only a few coexisting
LoRa networks (Voigt & et al., 2017) and collision rates that approach saturation in high density
settings (Krupka & et al., 2016; Georgiou & et al., 2017).
Agents in the wild view.
When learning based controllers are deployed at the network server,
each LNS behaves as an autonomous agent that senses partial feedback and acts through a shared
environment. The wireless medium couples agents through interference over long horizons, and
emergent synchronization can yield undesirable outcomes such as persistent collisions and unstable
oscillations.
Why coexistence is hard in LPWANs.
LPWAN links are long range and often operate under
severe hidden terminal conditions. LoRaWAN Class A uplinks are effectively ALOHA like, and
collisions are particularly costly because airtime can be long at high spreading factors. Duty cycle

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
regulations and downlink scarcity further limit the use of reactive coordination, and end devices
are constrained in compute, memory, and energy. These factors make it difficult to apply classical
collision avoidance or fine grained scheduling across independently managed deployments.
Existing mitigation options and their limits.
On the PHY side, a line of work improves collision
resolution (for example by decoding overlaps or exploiting structure) (Xu et al.; Xia & et al., 2020;
Shahid & et al.; Wang & et al.; Tong & et al., 2020). These approaches can improve robustness,
but they may require gateway modifications, tighter synchronization assumptions, or expensive
processing, and they do not eliminate repeated conflicts when many independent deployments
continually select similar operating points. On the MAC and control side, static or heuristic policies
(for example fixed channel plans or spreading factor assignments) can be brittle under dynamic traffic
and heterogeneous link budgets.
Reinforcement learning (RL) offers a practical path to adaptation by tuning transmission parameters
in response to changing conditions. In LPWANs, sustained on device training is often infeasible,
so recent systems shift learning to the LoRa Network Server (LNS), which can run deep RL and
apply network wide control without increasing end device burden (Haque et al., 2025). This model
provides a strong foundation for optimizing a single adaptive deployment.
A new failure mode: coexisting learning agents.
Our focus is an emergent multi network failure
mode. When multiple learning agents overlap, their independently trained policies can converge
toward similar “best” channels and spreading factor mixes, creating repeated collisions and a moving
target for each agent. The environment becomes non stationary because other agents also adapt. This
can prolong convergence, induce oscillations, and reduce the gains that learning was intended to
provide. In shared unlicensed spectrum, locally rational learning can be globally harmful and can
also degrade performance for nearby legacy devices that cannot adapt.
Our approach.
We introduce a coordination layer that is periodic rather than continuous, model
based rather than trace based, and diversity seeking rather than consensus seeking. Each network
retains autonomy and continues its local learning loop, while the coordination service provides a slow
moving signal that nudges policies away from persistent conflicts. The key idea is complementarity:
when networks face similar local conditions, coordination encourages their learning agents to occupy
distinct regions of the resource space (for example, different channel preferences or spreading factor
mixtures), reducing repeated collisions without requiring strict orthogonal partitioning.
Contributions.
• We identify and formalize the coexisting learning agents failure mode for LNS centric RL
in LPWANs, and we articulate why naive extensions of single network learning and static
coexistence mechanisms are insufficient.
• We introduce a parameter space coordination setting in which networks exchange only
model parameters and optional compact KPIs with a Collaborative Coordination Service
(CCS), avoiding raw traffic sharing and high overhead coupling.
• We present a generative complementarity mechanism that synthesizes distinct policy updates
for each network, optimizing a composite objective that balances local utility preservation
with cross network diversity.
• We provide evidence from a small physical setup and representative NS-3 simulations (ns3;
Magrin & et al.) that coordinated updates can improve reliability and reduce transmissions
per delivered packet relative to uncoordinated deep RL agents, and we discuss practical
safety, privacy, and robustness considerations.
RELATED WORK AND LIMITATIONS OF EXISTING APPROACHES
This section reviews prior work and uses it to motivate the need for a coordination layer that is both
lightweight and explicitly multi network.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
2.1
COEXISTENCE MECHANISMS IN LPWANS
Traditional coexistence approaches for WiFi or Bluetooth rely on CSMA or TDMA style coordination
(Yang & et al., 2010; 2011). These approaches transfer poorly to LPWANs due to long range hidden
terminals, long airtime, strict duty cycle constraints, and the need to keep end device logic simple.
For LoRa in particular, several works improve collision resolution at the PHY layer (Xu et al.; Xia &
et al., 2020; Shahid & et al.; Wang & et al.; Tong & et al., 2020), for example by decoding overlapping
transmissions or exploiting signal structure.
Limitations.
PHY collision resolution improves robustness but has deployment friction. Many techniques require gateway modifications, tighter synchronization assumptions, or expensive processing.
In addition, collision resolution does not address repeated conflicts that arise when many independent
deployments continuously select similar operating points, especially under adaptive control. Further,
when interference dynamics become non stationary due to other adaptive deployments, improvements
in decoding alone may not stabilize network wide behavior.
2.2
LEARNING BASED CONTROL FOR LPWANS
RL has been used for wireless resource management across cognitive radio, routing, and general
scheduling (Yau & et al., 2012; Zhang & et al.). In LPWANs, Q learning has been explored for
parameter selection (Yu & et al.), and some approaches place learning on end devices (Fahmida &
et al., 2023). More recent work shifts learning to the LNS and uses deep RL to adapt a single network
under interference (Haque et al., 2025).
Limitations.
Most learning based approaches optimize an individual network in the presence of
exogenous interference. When the interference source is itself adaptive, the learning dynamics change.
With multiple concurrently learning LNS entities acting as learning agents, independent optimization
can create non stationary dynamics that are not addressed by single agent RL methods. In practice,
this can appear as repeated policy oscillations, extended exploration phases, or convergence to
unstable local equilibria that are sensitive to minor traffic changes.
2.3
COORDINATION IN SHARED SPECTRUM
There is extensive work on spectrum etiquette and coexistence in unlicensed bands, including listen
before talk, channel hopping, and fairness mechanisms. However, LPWAN constraints make many of
these mechanisms difficult to apply at fine time scales: downlinks are scarce, uplinks are sporadic, and
end devices are intentionally simple. In addition, independently managed deployments have limited
incentives to reveal internal telemetry or accept an externally imposed schedule. These constraints
motivate periodic coordination that can be implemented at the control plane (backhaul side) rather
than at the radio plane.
2.4
WHY NOT SOLVE THIS WITH STANDARD MARL OR FULL CENTRALIZATION
Multi agent RL explicitly studies multiple learners, but directly applying standard MARL to coexisting
LPWAN deployments is challenging. It often assumes centralized training with shared experience,
dense communication among agents, or a shared reward with careful credit assignment. These
assumptions conflict with independently managed networks, privacy constraints, and the desire to
avoid sharing raw traffic traces or detailed channel measurements.
At the other extreme, a fully centralized scheduler that assigns resources across networks would
require real time ingestion of fine grained telemetry and would raise privacy and scalability concerns. Simple static partitioning of orthogonal resources can be brittle under dynamic traffic and
heterogeneous coverage, and it can become inefficient when resource demand is unbalanced.
Takeaway.
Existing solutions either do not address the coexisting learning agents failure mode, or
they rely on coordination assumptions that are hard to satisfy in practice. This motivates periodic
parameter level coordination that preserves autonomy and seeks diversity only when it reduces
persistent conflicts.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
PROBLEM DEFINITION AND COORDINATION SETTING
We consider K coexisting LPWAN deployments in a shared region. Each deployment is managed by
an LNSk that controls a set of end devices and runs a local RL agent. In this paper, we refer to the
LNS side RL controller as the deployment’s learning agent.
3.1
CONTROL PLANE AND DECISION VARIABLES
In LoRaWAN style LPWANs, many impactful decisions are taken at the network server and then
applied as network wide control. Typical controllable knobs include channel selection and frequency
plans, spreading factor and data rate selection, transmit power, and (where supported) retransmission
or repetition policies. These knobs interact with airtime, capture effects, and collision probability. In
congested regions, small shifts in channel preference mixtures can have outsized effects on contention
and can change the effective reward landscape experienced by learning agents.
We focus on LNS level control because it (i) avoids on device training, (ii) can aggregate feedback
across many end devices, and (iii) can implement consistent policies across a deployment. Importantly,
LNS level control also defines a natural boundary for cooperation between independently managed
deployments: coordination can occur between servers without requiring changes to end devices or
gateway RF chains.
Local learning model.
Each LNSk maintains a policy πk parameterized by θk. The policy maps a
local state s to an action a. The state can include recent acknowledgment outcomes, observed PRR
trends, queue information, and coarse interference indicators available to the LNS. The action can
include channel selection, spreading factor selection, power level, and other controllable parameters.
The reward signal is derived from a local utility function that reflects reliability, energy, and latency
objectives.
The coexisting learning agents failure mode.
When LNS learning agents optimize independently,
they often experience similar state distributions. If the reward function values similar operating points,
the agents can drift toward similar actions. This increases collision probability and creates a feedback
loop: collisions change reward and observed state, which causes further adaptation. From the
perspective of each learner, the environment becomes non stationary because the transition dynamics
depend on the other networks’ evolving policies. A key challenge is that this non stationarity is
structured: it is driven by policy similarity across deployments, not only by stochastic channel effects.
Coordination constraints.
We aim to address this failure mode under practical constraints.
• Limited sharing. Networks should not be required to share raw packet traces, detailed
device metadata, or gateway IQ samples.
• Low overhead. Coordination should be feasible over commodity backhaul, with updates on
the order of minutes rather than per packet.
• Independence. Each network retains autonomy and continues its own learning and control
loop.
• Heterogeneity. Different networks may use different RL agent architectures or different
local reward designs.
APPROACH OVERVIEW: PARAMETER SPACE COORDINATION
We explore a coordination mechanism that exchanges only model level information.
Collaborative Coordination Service (CCS).
Each LNS periodically sends a compact snapshot
of its current policy parameters and optionally a small scalar performance summary to a CCS. The
CCS then produces individualized parameter updates for each network and returns them to the
corresponding LNS.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
LNS1
(θ1)
LNS2
(θ2)
LNSK
(θK)
CCS
θ1, P1
θ2, P2
θK, PK
θ′
θ′
θ′
K
Figure 1: System overview: Each LNSk periodically shares its policy parameters θk along with a
compact KPI report Pk (e.g., PRR, EPN, ATP), and the CCS synthesizes coordinated parameters θ′
k
that encourage complementary (non identical) resource preferences to reduce repeated conflicts in
shared spectrum.
Design goal: complementarity rather than consensus.
Instead of aggregating all networks into
one shared policy, the CCS encourages different networks to prefer different operating regions when
their local states are similar. This provides a coarse coordination signal that can reduce repeated
conflicts while preserving privacy and avoiding high overhead sharing.
This parameter centric exchange resembles federated style communication in that raw traffic remains local, but it differs from federated aggregation because the objective is to synthesize a set of
coordinated yet distinct policies rather than a single global model.
Coordination cadence.
Coordination rounds occur periodically, for example every few minutes.
Between rounds, each LNS continues its local control loop and can still adapt at its own pace. This
separation of time scales is important: the CCS provides a slow moving coordination signal that
nudges policies away from repeated conflicts, while local learning reacts to faster dynamics. A
practical benefit of this design is that the CCS interface can be implemented as a simple backhaul
API, leaving the radio protocol unchanged.
Worked example.
Consider two coexisting deployments whose independent learning agents both
identify the same channel and spreading factor pair as locally optimal during early exploration. If
both converge to that operating point, collisions persist and both networks experience degraded PRR,
higher ATP, and a noisier reward signal. In our setting, each LNS reports only its current parameters
and a compact KPI summary. The CCS can respond by nudging one policy toward a neighboring
operating region, for example by shifting the channel preference or adjusting the spreading factor
mix, while keeping both policies close to their locally learned configurations. The goal is not to
enforce strict orthogonality, but to break symmetry so that similarly situated learning agents do not
repeatedly choose the same resources.
GENERATIVE COMPLEMENTARITY MECHANISM
The CCS uses a generative mapping G to transform an input set of potentially conflicting policies
{θk}K
k=1 into a coordinated set {θ′
k}K
k=1. Alongside policy parameters, each LNS can send a compact
KPI summary over the last reporting window,
Pk ≜

PRRk, EPNk, ATPk, ¯Rk

,
(1)
where PRRk is packet reception rate, EPNk is average energy per delivered packet, ATPk is average
attempts per delivered packet, and ¯Rk is the average RL return or a scalar utility proxy.
5.1
HYPERNETWORK STYLE INDIVIDUALIZED UPDATES
In our instantiation, G is a hypernetwork that produces a residual update around each local policy,
θ′
k = θk + ∆θk,
∆θk = Gk
 θk, Ck, zk

,
(2)

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Algorithm 1 One coordination round (high level)
for k = 1 to K in parallel do
LNSk exports θk and computes Pk.
LNSk →CCS: send (θk, Pk).
end for
CCS forms contexts {Ck} and samples latent codes {zk}.
for k = 1 to K do
CCS computes θ′
k = θk + Gk(θk, Ck, zk).
CCS →LNSk: send θ′
k.
end for
Each LNS applies θ′
k and continues local control until the next round.
where zk is a policy specific latent code that prevents deterministic collapse and Ck is a coordination
context that summarizes the other networks.
A simple permutation invariant context uses pooled policy embeddings,
¯θ−k ≜
K −1
X
j̸=k
˜θj,
Ck ≜MLPctx
 [˜θk ∥¯θ−k]

,
(3)
where ˜θk is an embedding of θk produced by an encoder for the local agent type. This embedding
step is where heterogeneity is handled: different RL agent architectures can be mapped into a shared
representation space.
5.2
COORDINATION OBJECTIVE
The CCS aims to preserve each network’s local utility while explicitly encouraging diversity in
behavior across networks. We express this as a composite objective,
Ltotal = αLtask + βLdiv + γLadv,
(4)
where Ltask penalizes degraded network utility (either via return or via a KPI weighted proxy derived
from Pk), and Ldiv encourages separation.
For discrete action spaces, one practical choice is to maximize pairwise divergence between action
distributions,
Ldiv ≜−
K(K −1)
X
1≤i<j≤K
Es∼D

JS
 π′
i(·|s) ∥π′
j(·|s)

,
(5)
which discourages overlapping resource preferences under similar states. The optional term Ladv
reinforces functional distinguishability through an auxiliary discriminator that predicts which network
produced a given state action pair.
5.3
COORDINATION ROUND PROTOCOL
A typical coordination cycle is lightweight.
5.4
TRAINING AND DEPLOYMENT
In our prototype, G is trained offline using simulated rollouts that provide diverse policy snapshots,
and then deployed as a fixed inference model during online operation. Each LNS continues its own
local learning and exploration, while the CCS provides periodic coordinated updates. A deeper
treatment of training stability, dataset construction, and sensitivity to coordination interval and
objective weights is deferred to future work.
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS
Overhead and update frequency.
Policy parameter snapshots are modest compared to typical
gateway backhaul. For the deep RL agents we use, snapshots are on the order of hundreds of kilobytes.
With coordination intervals on the order of minutes, the resulting control overhead is well below
commodity backhaul capacity.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Safety, privacy, and robustness.
Exchanging only parameters reduces exposure compared to
sharing raw traffic traces, but parameters and KPIs can still leak information in some settings.
Coordination also introduces an attack surface: a faulty or strategic participant can send outlier
parameters or manipulated KPIs that steer updates toward harmful regions. Because coordination
is periodic, a practical safeguard is conservative update application at each LNS, for example
clipping the residual ∆θk and rejecting updates that degrade a short horizon local KPI proxy. Robust
coordination should also account for staleness and partial participation by reducing update magnitude
when snapshots are old, and deployments may require fairness safeguards so that diversity pressure
does not push smaller networks into inefficient extremes.
Heterogeneity.
Different networks may adopt different RL algorithms over time. The encoder based
design allows the CCS to map different parameter structures into a shared embedding space, enabling
coordinated updates across heterogeneous learners without requiring all networks to standardize on
one RL stack.
Incentives and fairness.
A coordination layer is only useful if networks choose to participate. In
shared unlicensed spectrum, participation can be framed as mutually beneficial: complementarity
reduces repeated conflicts and improves reliability for everyone. Practical deployments may therefore
require fairness constraints or adaptive diversity weights that depend on congestion and relative traffic
load.
Asynchrony and partial participation.
Perfect synchronization is not required. In practice, each
LNS can report on its own schedule and the CCS can operate on the most recent snapshot from each
participant, generating updates for all participants or for the subset that reported within a window.
Non participating deployments are treated as external interference, and participating networks can
still benefit if the coordination signal reduces repeated conflicts among the learning enabled subset.
Compatibility with LoRaWAN operational constraints.
LoRaWAN uplinks are often the dominant traffic source, while downlinks are scarce and constrained by duty cycle. A practical coordination
mechanism should therefore primarily influence uplink decisions, such as channel and spreading
factor distributions, and should avoid requiring per packet coordination or frequent downlink control.
The periodic parameter update model aligns with these constraints, and it can be implemented as a
backhaul side service rather than a radio side protocol change.
EVALUATION
We evaluate parameter space coordination using a small indoor physical setup and representative
NS-3 simulations (ns3; Magrin & et al.). We focus on coexistence regimes where independent
learning agents tend to concentrate on similar operating points and create repeated collisions.
7.1
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP AND BASELINES
Physical deployment model.
Our physical setup instantiates multiple coexisting LoRa networks in
the same indoor environment. Each network comprises a gateway and a set of end devices managed by
an LNS instance. Networks are configured to overlap in time and frequency, and traffic is generated
to emulate common periodic IoT reporting patterns alongside bursty episodes (for example due
to alarms). To isolate coexistence effects, each LNS observes only its own acknowledgments and
network side statistics, and it does not receive privileged information about other deployments beyond
what is provided through the coordination interface.
Learning agents and action space.
Each LNS runs a deep RL agent that selects transmission
configurations from a restricted action set that reflects practical LPWAN operations. Actions include
channel selection and a small set of data rate or spreading factor options, and may include transmit
power choices when permitted by the regional rules. The reward trades off delivery success and
airtime or energy cost proxies, so that policies are incentivized to reduce retransmissions while
maintaining reliability.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
23 ft
13.5 ft
Gateway
DQN Node
PPO Node
Legacy Node
Figure 2: Physical experiment layout (illustrative). Multiple coexisting LoRa networks operate in the
same indoor environment while LNS learning agents adapt and optionally coordinate through the
CCS.
Scenario
PRR gain
EPN gain
ATP gain
2 coexisting learning networks
≥20%
≥10%
≥15%
4 coexisting learning networks
≥10%
≥8%
≥10%
Heterogeneous learners plus legacy
≥5%
≥5%
≥5%
Table 1: Representative improvements from parameter space coordination relative to independent
learning.
Coordination interval.
Coordination occurs periodically. Between coordination rounds, each LNS
continues local learning and uses the current policy to make per packet decisions. This isolates the
effect of coordination updates and makes it clear whether periodic parameter nudges are sufficient to
avoid persistent policy collapse.
Simulation setup.
Simulations vary the number of networks, managed nodes, and external interferers within a multi kilometer region. The objective is to stress test the coexisting learning agents
failure mode under controlled scaling and traffic dynamics. We vary traffic intensity across networks
to emulate heterogeneous deployments (for example a large industrial deployment coexisting with
smaller building scale systems) and introduce time varying external interference to test stability.
Metrics.
We report packet reception rate (PRR), energy per delivered packet (EPN), and attempts
per delivered packet (ATP). ATP captures retransmission pressure and directly reflects airtime
contention. EPN summarizes the combined cost of higher transmission counts and higher transmit
power choices. When evaluating mixed settings with legacy nodes, we also report spillover impact on
the legacy group.
Baselines.
We compare against uncoordinated independent deep RL at each LNS (Haque et al.,
2025). We also include a simple centralized coordinator that statically partitions orthogonal resources
in a greedy manner to illustrate the limits of rigid assignment under traffic and interference dynamics.
This baseline is informative because it shows the gap between strict partitioning and adaptive
complementarity, especially when traffic load is imbalanced.
7.2
REPRESENTATIVE RESULTS
Summary table.
Table 1 summarizes representative improvements for coordinated updates relative
to independent deep RL in several coexistence regimes.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Figure 3: Simulation slice under dynamic external interference. Coordinated policies maintain higher
PRR while reducing energy per delivered packet and transmission attempts per delivered packet.
Figure 4: Mixed learner setting. Coordinated updates improve PRR relative to uncoordinated learning
in a heterogeneous environment.
Dynamic interference slice.
Figure 3 shows one simulation slice under dynamic external interference, where complementarity yields higher PRR and fewer transmissions per delivered packet.
Heterogeneous environment.
We also consider a mixed architecture environment where one
network uses a DQN style agent, one uses a policy gradient style agent, and one group behaves
as legacy LoRaWAN nodes. Figure 4 illustrates that coordination can improve reliability in this
heterogeneous setting while also reducing interference spillover to the legacy group.
7.3
QUALITATIVE OBSERVATIONS
Symmetry breaking and sustained separation.
Across scenarios where independent learners
repeatedly collide, coordinated updates push policies into distinct regions of the resource space and
keep them separated for long windows. Importantly, this is not strict orthogonality. Rather, each
network develops a distinct preference mixture, for example different channel probabilities combined
with different spreading factor tradeoffs, which reduces simultaneous collisions while still allowing
local learning to adapt within its own region. This behavior is valuable in practice because it tolerates
shifts in demand: if one network becomes temporarily quiet, others can expand without requiring a
rigid long term partition.
Role of latent codes.
The latent codes {zk} act as a low cost source of stochasticity that helps avoid
deterministic collapse when two networks report nearly identical parameter vectors. In qualitative
ablations where the latent path is removed, the hypernetwork can sometimes produce similar updates
for multiple participants, especially when the KPI summaries are also similar. With the latent path
retained, updates tend to be more individualized even when the input snapshots are highly symmetric.
When coordination can hurt.
Complementarity is not always beneficial. If the channel is already
lightly loaded, enforcing diversity can introduce unnecessary exploration and can temporarily reduce
local utility. Likewise, if one network has a much larger traffic volume than the others, naive diversity
may shift smaller networks into inefficient configurations to accommodate the larger network. These
observations motivate fairness constraints and adaptive diversity weights that depend on congestion
and relative traffic load, as well as safeguards that reduce the strength of diversity when collision
indicators are low.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Compute footprint.
A coordination round consists of encoding parameter snapshots, pooling
contexts, and producing residual updates. For the model sizes we consider, inference is lightweight
compared to local training and can be amortized across participants. Because updates occur on the
order of minutes, a cloud hosted CCS can support many concurrent networks, with engineering
attention to staleness, asynchronous arrivals, and admission control under bursts.
DISCUSSION, LIMITATIONS, AND OPEN QUESTIONS
Stability under asynchronous coordination.
Real deployments may not synchronize coordination
rounds, and policies may arrive at the CCS with different delays. Understanding stability and
convergence in asynchronous and partially participating environments remains open. A promising
direction is to couple coordination strength to an estimate of staleness or uncertainty, so that older
snapshots lead to smaller residual updates.
Strategic behavior and incentives.
Networks may have incentives to misreport KPIs or to avoid
coordination if it appears locally costly. Incentive compatible coordination and mechanisms that
discourage free riding are important for practical adoption. In unlicensed bands, participation may
be most natural in environments where multiple networks share long term infrastructure or where
coordinated operation yields measurable mutual gains.
Robustness to adversaries.
A malicious participant could attempt to poison the coordination
process by sending adversarial parameters or by inducing collapse toward a harmful configuration.
Defenses could include anomaly detection on parameter updates, robustness regularizers, and trust
scoring. Because coordination is periodic, one can also add conservative acceptance tests at each
LNS, for example applying an update only if it improves short horizon KPIs.
Privacy leakage.
Even without raw traces, model parameters can encode information about traffic
patterns or local conditions. A careful privacy analysis is required, along with possible mitigations
such as parameter compression, differentially private noise, or secure aggregation variants. An important practical question is the threat model: who operates the CCS and what guarantees participants
require.
Choosing diversity.
Diversity is not an end in itself. The diversity objective must be aligned with
coexistence metrics and fairness, and it must avoid pushing networks toward extreme configurations
that harm local utility. Understanding how to choose and tune β in (4) across heterogeneous networks
is a central open question, and it likely depends on congestion regimes, traffic imbalance, and
regulatory constraints.
Broader agentic takeaway.
When multiple deployed learning agents interact through a shared
environment, independent optimization can produce emergent synchronization that is locally stable
but globally harmful. Periodic parameter space coordination is a lightweight way to break symmetry
under limited sharing constraints.
CONCLUSION
Model parameter coordination offers a pragmatic path toward more stable coexistence among learning
enabled LPWAN deployments. By synthesizing complementary policy updates rather than aggregating toward consensus, a coordination service can reduce repeated conflicts while keeping data
local. Our results indicate that parameter space coordination can improve reliability and reduce
transmissions per delivered packet, motivating deeper evaluation and theoretical characterization in
future work.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
REFERENCES
Ns-3. https://www.nsnam.org/.
Sezana Fahmida and et al. Long-lived lora: Prolonging the lifetime of a lora network. In 2020 ICNP,
pp. 1–12. IEEE, 2020.
Sezana Fahmida and et al. Real-time communication over lora networks. In 2022 IoTDI, pp. 14–27.
IEEE, 2022.
Sezana Fahmida and et al. Handling coexistence of lora with other networks through embedded
reinforcement learning. In IoTDI, pp. 410–423, 2023. ISBN 9798400700378.
O. Georgiou and et al. Low power wide area network analysis: Can lora scale? WCL, 2017.
Md Ashikul Haque, Abusayeed Saifullah, and Haibo Zhang. Deep reinforcement learning based
coexistence management in lpwan. INFOCOM, 2025.
L. Krupka and et al. The issue of lpwan technology coexistence in IoT environment. In ME, pp. 1–8,
2016.
Davide Magrin and et al. Performance evaluation of lora networks in a smart city scenario. In ICC
(2017).
Kais Mekkia and et al. A comparative study of lpwan technologies for large-scale iot deployment. In
ICT Express, 2018. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.icte.2017.12.005.
Abusayeed Saifullah and et al. Low-power wide-area networks over white spaces. ToN, 26(4):
1893–1906, 2018. doi: 10.1109/TNET.2018.2856197.
Muhammad Osama Shahid and et al. Concurrent interference cancellation: Decoding multi-packet
collisions in lora. In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM SIGCOMM 2021 Conference.
Shuai Tong and et al. Colora: Enabling multi-packet reception in lora. In INFOCOM’20, 2020.
Thiemo Voigt and et al. Mitigating inter-network interference in lora networks. EWSN ’17, pp.
323–328, 2017.
Xiong Wang and et al. mlora: A multi-packet reception protocol in lora networks. In 2019 IEEE
27th International Conference on Network Protocols (ICNP).
Xianjin Xia and et al. Ftrack: Parallel decoding for lora transmissions. IEEE/ACM Transactions on
Networking, 2020.
Zhenqiang Xu, Pengjin Xie, and Jiliang Wang. Pyramid: Real-time lora collision decoding with peak
tracking. In INFOCOM’21.
D. Yang and et al. Coexistence of ieee802.15.4 based networks: A survey. In IECON, 2010.
Dong Yang and et al. Wireless coexistence between ieee 802.11- and ieee 802.15.4-based networks:
A survey. IJDSN, 7(1):912152, 2011.
Kok-Lim Alvin Yau and et al. Review: Reinforcement learning for context awareness and intelligence
in wireless networks: Review, new features and open issues. J. Netw. Comput. Appl., 35(1):
253–267, January 2012. ISSN 1084-8045.
Yi Yu and et al. Multi-agent q-learning algorithm for dynamic power and rate allocation in lora
networks. In 2020 PIMRC.
Hailu Zhang and et al. Reinforcement learning-based interference control for ultra-dense small cells.
In GLOBECOM’18.