POSITION: AGENTIC SYSTEMS SHOULD BE GENERAL
Anonymous authors
Paper under double-blind review
ABSTRACT
We call for the development of agentic systems that thrive in new environments.
Agentic systems, comprising foundation models, tools, and an execution strategy,
have demonstrated strong capabilities, yet their development is often constrained
by narrow benchmarks and their operation is siloed to limited environments.
This paper advocates for developing general, adaptive agents that excel across
diverse environments, from terminals and web interfaces to biological and embodied settings. We examine current limitations, explain the potential of increased
generality, and identify immediate development priorities. Finally, we argue that
protocols and evaluation must prioritize adaptiveness to foster a shared ecosystem
for general-purpose agentic systems.
INTRO
In recent years, we saw a rise in the generality of AI solutions, LLMs moved from domain-specific
models to general-purpose ones (Raffel et al., 2020), and broadened to incorporate reasoning capabilities (Guo et al., 2025). A significant step in this direction is the transition to agentic systems that
tackle complex, long-horizon tasks that require repeated interactions with the external environment.
Yet, most of these agents are developed, improved, and evaluated in domain-specific settings (see §2).
We propose that agent developers should aim for generality. We see domain-specific agents as
an intermediate stage in the development of agents. We envision that every next generation of
agents should and will become more general and unified. We term these agents general-purpose
agents, possessing the ability to perform different types of agentic tasks across unfamiliar and varied
environments.
Achieving such generality requires a collective effort to build a general-purpose agentic ecosystem.
This necessitates benchmarks that reward, rather than penalize, generality, and protocols that provide
agents with essential environmental context.
Generalization is a goal more than a predefined set of requirements. As such, an agentic system that
merely fulfills two tasks in the health domain is more general than if it only performs one. Thus, we
do not expect to reach Agentic General Interaction.
Still, we aim to highlight the directions in which agentic systems are commencing to generalize today
and might master in the foreseeable future. Among those are performing different tasks with new
tools, across domains and environments, using different modalities, embodiments, and complex data
geometries. In all of those, we should strive to reduce human intervention per instance.
The Core Position
When developing agentic systems, the community should favor general-purpose designs
that adapt across environments over narrow, benchmark-specific solutions. This includes
building the protocols, evaluation frameworks, and development practices needed to
support adaptable agents that minimize per-deployment human effort.
General agents represent a promising frontier because they consolidate fragmented research efforts,
ensuring that breakthroughs benefit the entire field rather than being lost in isolated sub-communities
or redundant studies. By supporting diverse signals, these agents develop more robust, adaptable
solutions compared to narrow systems. Furthermore, the versatility of a general-purpose architecture

allows for significant impact across vastly different use cases, while simultaneously reducing the cost
and complexity of implementing the technology for new, specific applications.
WHAT ARE AGENTIC SYSTEMS
Agentic systems are pipelines that sustain interaction with an environment to perform a task, integrating components such as foundation models, tools, and human intervention through various
activation patterns (e.g., Yao et al., 2022). We now define key terms related to agentic systems that
recur throughout the paper.
2.1
DEFINITIONS
Agentic System or Agent is a system that performs actions and observes their consequences in
pursuit of a task. In our context, agentic systems are multi-component frameworks, specifically ones
including a foundation model. We define those components next.
Environment is the external world with which an agentic system interacts: it provides observations
to the agent and is modified by the agent’s actions, typically via tools.
Agentic Pattern is the core algorithm of an agentic system orchestrating its components, such as
foundation models, memory mechanisms, context compression, and tool execution. Given initial
input, the agentic pattern governs how these components interact and react to one another (e.g., Yao
et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2024).
Foundation Model is a learned model capable of performing diverse tasks in a certain domain. In
contrast, a tool is any code that is available to the agent to manipulate information or interact with the
environment or the system’s state (Schick et al., 2023). While a foundation model can be seen as a
tool, it often plays a unique role in the agentic-pattern’s orchestration and decision-making, and we
hence separate it for ease of discussion.
In terms of generality, we see the foundation model and tools as separate from the agentic pattern,
but some patterns do currently rely on specific models. It remains to be seen whether these will
ultimately be separate from the system, inseparable, or a hybrid, where some tools and foundation
models are provided to the agent in new settings, while others ship as part of the general solution.
Protocol defines the standard for exchanging dynamic information to and from the agentic system.
This includes environmental state, task specifications, and external integration. For example, the
Model Context Protocol (MCP) (Anthropic, 2024) standardizes how agents access data sources, tools,
and workflows to retrieve information and execute tasks (MCP Project, 2025).
WHAT ARE GENERAL-PURPOSE AGENTS
We define a more general agentic system as one that can successfully act across a broader range of
scenarios. This adaptability may stem from the agent’s ability to recognize novel situations through
interaction or from explicit communication of environmental features.
An equivalent perspective sees generality as the reduction of manual effort. The more general a
system is, the less effort is invested in every new situation. Less effort to develop a new agent or
configure an existing one to work with new tools and environments.
Notably, generality is not a binary property but exists as a spectrum: agents differ in the breadth of
environments and novel settings they can handle.
An accompanying goal to generality is always performance. The most general agentic system is
one that does nothing in every situation. This extreme example serves to remind us that when we
describe the research field, we call for more general systems and ecosystems to be developed, but
among them, those systems should become more competent in the general settings they put forth.
General Performance highlights the gap between theoretical possibility and practical execution.
While an agent equipped with minimal general-purpose tools or in open environments may be capable
in principle of performing any task, analogous to Turing-Completeness, in practice, such capability

may be inefficient or unreliable. An agent could, for instance, construct its own tools given access to
code execution or a general computing interface, yet the resulting performance may be prohibitively
costly. Thus, for example, a “generalist agent for the web” (Deng et al., 2023) can still be more
general by interacting with other environments such as terminals. Overall, we discuss practical
generality rather than theoretical possibility.
THE CURRENT SPECTRUM OF GENERALITY
Agentic research has rapidly expanded, producing systems that vary widely in their scope, assumptions, and claims of generality. We identify that contemporary agent logic is often tied to specific
environments, leaving clear avenues for future research.
In this section, we first outline broad categories of agent generality, then examine where benchmarkconditioned agents that are fitted for specific environments or domains fall short, and finally highlight
environment-agnostic designs as a more robust path toward general agents.
4.1
LEVELS OF AGENT GENERALITY
A variety of work focuses on building agentic systems for a specific task or domain, either to showcase
a general method or because the task itself is of intrinsic value. Examples include agents specialized
for web tasks (Bohra et al., 2025), medical reasoning (Zhou et al., 2023), or legal workflows (Tang
et al., 2023b). Such systems do not aim for broad generality, instead prioritizing performance and
robustness within a fixed domain.
In contrast, research on subcomponents focuses on versatile capabilities, including unseen tool use
(Tang et al., 2023a), performing multiple tasks within a single domain (Wu et al., 2024), and agentic
behaviors such as memory, self-improvement, and reasoning (c.f., Luo et al., 2025). These methods
rely primarily on a language backbone and are largely domain-agnostic, making them applicable
across a wide range of agentic systems.
Finally, some foundation models (famously, GATO; Reed et al., 2022) were among the first to claim
broad generality. Models such as GATO can be viewed as a single-component agentic system in
their own right, operating across many environments, though adapting to new ones often requires
additional training. While foundation models may continue to grow more general, our focus here is
on multi-component agentic systems, which remain central to contemporary agent research.
Importantly, the generality of a model or pattern does not automatically ensure generality at the
system level. We now examine how this gap manifests in practice.
4.2
BENCHMARK-CONDITIONED GENERAL AGENTS
Supporting multiple environments is a key step towards generality. However, common approaches
tend to encode environment-specific assumptions directly into the agent logic, limiting their applicability to unseen environments.
HAL Generalist Agent.
The HAL Generalist Agent (Kapoor et al., 2025a) exemplifies this pattern.
While HAL supports multiple environments, it behaves differently depending on the benchmark used
to measure its capabilities. For example, the implementation contains more than 20 instances of
conditional logic of the form if kwargs[’benchmark name’] == ..., which are used to
encode assumptions about dataset structure, available tools, and task-relevant information that are
specific to individual benchmarks. For example:
elif kwargs[’benchmark_name’] == ’scienceagentbench’:
DATA_INFO_PROMPT = """You can access the dataset at ‘{dataset_path}‘. Here is the
directory structure of the dataset:
‘‘‘{dataset_folder_tree}‘‘‘
Here are some helpful previews for the dataset file(s):
{dataset_preview}"""
CUGA: Configurable Generalist Agent.
CUGA (Marreed et al., 2025) similarly supports multiple benchmarks through explicit configuration. While it is not tied to a single task or domain, it

Agent
LLMs used
ASTA score
Cost per task
LOC
ASTA-v0
Claude 4 Sonnet, Gemini 2.5 Flash, O3, GPT 4.1, GPT-4o
53%
$3.40
> 13, 768
ReAct
GPT-5
44%
$0.31
Table 1: In scientific tasks, the generalist agent ReAct approaches ASTA-v0’s performance with far
less cost and complexity
requires manual, benchmark-specific setup to function correctly. Notably, CUGA includes dedicated
infrastructure for AppWorld, such as the appworld auth manager.py module, which automatically logs into applications on behalf of the agent, and the system prompt instructs it to assume an
authenticated status. Consequently, while HAL and CUGA are configurable, they remain constrained
in novel domains.
4.3
ENVIRONMENT-AGNOSTIC AGENT DESIGN
In contrast to benchmark-conditioned systems, some agents adopt an environment-agnostic design
that avoids embedding environment-specific assumptions into their pattern. mini-swe-agent
(Yang et al., 2024), though not claiming generality, epitomizes many key properties of generality.
The core loop of mini-swe-agent is environment-agnostic and interacts exclusively through
a generic command-execution interface (env.execute), driven by model-produced bash code
blocks. The agent does not branch on benchmark identifiers or include environment-specific handlers.
Instead, it follows a minimal and reusable protocol: (i) render task and context templates, (ii) query
the model, (iii) parse a single CLI action, (iv) execute it, and (v) feed the observation back to the
model, with well-defined error recovery for format errors, timeouts, and step or cost limits.
This design yields a clear extension mechanism: supporting a new benchmark requires only implementing an Environment backend exposing execute() and the necessary template variables,
without modifying the agent’s control flow. As long as a target environment provides a CLI, or can be
wrapped as one, mini-swe-agent can, in principle, operate across unseen environments without
prior benchmark knowledge baked into its core logic.
SPARKS OF GENERAL AGENTS
If environment-agnostic design truly captures agent generality, it should lower engineering complexity
and reduce operational cost while maintaining competitive performance. We examine empirical cases
where general agents have already shown promise. Though currently rare and hence anecdotal, these
examples highlight potential advantages of generality.
CASE 1: SCIENTIFIC AGENTS
ASTA Bench (Bragg et al., 2025), an effort towards benchmarking deep scientific research agents,
provides a clear test. As shown in Table 1, the specialized ASTA-v0 system scores 55% at $3.40 per
task and contains subsystems exceeding 13,000 lines of code (LOC). Yet the second-best system is a
300-line ReAct general agent scoring 44% at just $0.31. On the literature-understanding subtask,
ReAct scores 53%; although still below the Asta agent (62%), outperforming both the specialized
ASTA Paper Finder (21%) and OpenAI Deep Research (19%).
CASE 2: SWE AGENTS
In SWE-Bench (Yang et al., 2025), the specialized SWE-Agent scores 67%, but the tiny, domainagnostic Mini SWE-Agent scores 65% while being 30 times smaller and about 7 times cheaper per
run (Table 2). Across both scientific and SWE settings, small general agents of a few hundred lines
consistently achieve 70% to 95% of the performance of systems that are thousands of lines.

Agent
LLM
SWE-Bench score
Cost per task
LOC
SWE-Agent
Claude 4 Sonnet
67%
∼$2.50
4,161
Mini SWE-Agent
Claude 4 Sonnet
65%
$0.37
Table 2: In software engineering tasks, a minimal general agent nearly matches a specialized agent
while being far smaller and cheaper.
SUPPORTING VIEWPOINTS
Progress in Machine Learning and computing has repeatedly (though not monotonically) evolved
toward higher levels of abstraction. Heuristics gave way to algorithms; algorithms to learning systems;
and per-task models to foundation models trained on broad data distributions. Each transition reduced
coupling between problems and solutions, shifting the primary bottleneck from per-task manual
engineering toward preparation through data, compute, and scalable optimization. Agentic systems
extend this trajectory by abstracting over interaction itself: rather than mapping fixed inputs to outputs,
agents define strategies, selecting actions that shape future observations across environments and
tools.
Based on this historic trend, and the specifics of agentic systems, we discuss the potential benefits of
developing general agentic systems in this section and alternative viewpoints in §7.
Better Performance
A consistent lesson from this history is that studying general mechanisms
creates stronger tools. Both in computer vision (Krizhevsky et al., 2012) and natural language
processing (Devlin et al., 2019), hand-engineered pipelines were displaced by neural networks trained
on large datasets, which work better, require less human effort, and are less brittle. As articulated by
the “Bitter Lesson,” approaches that rely on scalable computation, data and learning tend to eventually
outperform those that require manual effort (Sutton, 2019).
Robust
Occam’s Razor is often taken out of its original context and applied to machine learning,
where a repeated finding in theory and practice is that the solution with the fewest assumptions (and
sometimes degrees of freedom) works best. Such solutions generalize better, are more robust, and
less prone to overfitting (Shalev-Shwartz & Ben-David, 2014; Valiant, 1984; Gokhale et al., 2022).
Specifically, unlike domain agents that can be over-specialized and tailored to a specific task or
domain, general agents work with different environments, forcing them to generalize. They receive
diverse signals from a wide range of environments, requiring them to be robust.
Evaluation
As agents become capable across more domains, they can be evaluated on a wider
and more diverse set of tasks, as some suggest. Although broad evaluations may not fit any single
practitioner, they are more likely to cover a task’s requirements and test relevant capabilities. In
contrast, evaluations tied to specific agent settings are less transferable, since practical use cases vary
substantially.
Centralizing Efforts
Generality is as beneficial for the field as it is for the quality of the designed
systems. Focusing on general-purpose systems unifies an otherwise fragmented research landscape.
By moving away from isolated use cases, we eliminate the “redundancy trap” where researchers
independently rediscover the same fundamental principles, as has been reported for engineering
(Gamma, 1995), Machine Learning (Sculley et al., 2015), and science in general (Kuhn & Hacking,
1970). Furthermore, a generalist framework cuts the communication overhead required to share
insights across subfields. This alignment of communication, goals, and solutions will likely show its
gains in speed and progress.
Reducing Entry Barriers
Generality can support a broader community of users. Under our
definition, generality emphasizes minimizing human effort when adapting to new scenarios, rather
than requiring a single system to work in all cases. Thus, the expertise required for tweaking is also
expected to be reduced. This trait was often acclaimed as a main factor for the speed of innovation
in the Machine Learning field and a reason to call for open solutions (Sonnenburg et al., 2007;

Hosanagar & Saxena, 2017; Birhane et al., 2022; Manchanda et al., 2024) and we hope that with
lowering other barriers to entry like compute, it will lead to it here as well.
Better starting point for Specialized Agents
By our definition, general agentic systems are
capable of performing a wide range of tasks with minimal human guidance, thus providing a strong
starting point for specialization. With general reasoning, adaptation and cross-domain needs handled,
developers can focus on high-value, domain-specific challenges, accelerating innovation. This pattern
mirrors the historical trajectory of pretrained models, which, once trained on broad corpora, could be
efficiently fine-tuned for specialized NLP tasks (or create a dedicated agentic pipeline), dramatically
reducing development time. Consequently, investing in general agentic systems is likely to yield
superior starting points for specialized agents, both in efficiency and performance.
Interoperability through decoupling (Narrow Waist)
At the system level, history suggests that
generality improves robustness by reducing brittleness at interfaces. As systems scale, failures
increasingly arise at the boundaries between components rather than within individual modules.
The Internet’s success illustrates this principle: a narrow, stable waist in the protocol stack enabled
innovation above and below it while preserving interoperability (Clark, 1988; Cerf & Kahn, 1974).
Agentic systems are similarly composite, integrating models, tools, environments, memory, and
control logic. General agentic abstractions, such as an environmental information protocol, can serve
as a “narrow waist” decoupling the developments of tools, models and agentic patterns.
Widespread Gains
With uses in more settings, more research, and more users, agentic systems
are likely to be deployed more. When those solutions also share many of the same components, the
result is clear. New improvements impact a wider audience.
Accountability through visibility
So far, we discussed the potential of agentic systems for increased use. We now turn to their potential in mitigating risks. Accountability through visibility is
the benefit that emerges when general-purpose agents are widely used and openly scrutinized. Broad
exposure invites continuous examination, criticism, and defense, making failures harder to hide and
accelerating understanding of safety and moral risks. This shared scrutiny distributes responsibility
across the community, strengthening both accountability and ethical oversight over time. Some also
claimed that the robustness that comes from general testing would induce safety (Jin & Lee, 2025).
Governance
Standard centralized bottlenecks in systems allows for simple intervention. Thus,
for example, to avoid certain agentic patterns, there is a clear point of intervention in the general
agent, the communicating layers, standards, code or developments may enforce not leaning towards
such unwanted behaviors. Such centralization points also aid regulatory bodies to audit on the whole
ecosystem at once (Dafoe, 2018).
Taken together, these precedents motivate prioritizing general agentic systems over narrowly engineered alternatives. Agents operate in regimes characterized by high task diversity, long horizons,
evolving environments, and limited opportunities for manual tuning—conditions under which general
abstractions have repeatedly proven effective. While generality does not guarantee optimal performance on every task, the history of abstraction in computing suggests it is a favorable strategy for
building agentic systems and infrastructure intended to operate broadly, adapt continuously, and
minimize ongoing human intervention.
ALTERNATIVE VIEWPOINTS
We provide multiple adjacent viewpoints that our claim raises as a way to better understand the
nuances of what we call for.
Agentic systems should be specialized. The most direct alternative view to the current work is
that agentic systems should not be general; they should remain constrained to specific tasks and
environments. This has a few potential benefits:
• Control. Using explicitly defined tasks and domains of operation enables clarity on what specifically an agent should and should not do, and provides insight into potential beneficial and

problematic outcomes of agent operation. As such, developers can adopt a high degree of precision in limiting harmful agent functionality, while enabling task-specific supportive actions. This
can help to appropriately address multiple foreseeable events stemming from an agent’s execution,
including helping to prevent safety and security issues (He et al., 2025; Sheggam & Zhang, 2024).
In this paper’s position, many of the benefits of control still remain with general agents: One can
limit foreseeable problematic agent operations, for example, by constraining its environment and
tools. However, we acknowledge that it is harder to control the effects of the agentic pattern, and
correspondingly, would have less insight into how the agent might interact with the world. We
argue that the benefits of generality are worth this cost.
• Predictability. Related to the above, specialized agents can be more predictable. In this view,
generality vs. predictability might be seen as two views of the same potential: Just as unforeseen
opportunities and assistance from AI agents are enabled by generality, so too are unforeseen
harms. This is akin to a “glass-half-empty” vs. “glass half full” argument.
• Efficiency. When the domain of operation for an agent is explicitly defined, it can be highly
optimized, cutting unnecessary abilities, data consumption, and compute, making the extra human
effort worthwhile. We argue that this efficiency will be available to those with resources, but it
would raise the barrier of entry for the rest (§6).
• Evaluation rigor. The more specialized the system, the clearer it is what to evaluate, tying agents
to their use. We argue that narrow specifications are easier to game and overfit, which are likely
to lead to approaches that only work well in the setting of a specific target benchmark.
General ability might enable increased autonomy, which can bring unforeseen risks. While
the autonomy of AI agents entails decreased need for human development per task, there is a worry
that this will also mean less control or manual intervention points during agent operation. We argue
that generality is a distinct property from autonomy, and the two concepts should not be conflated:
Concern about autonomy does not entail diminishing generality. Such a position would need to be
rigorously examined in its own right. We refer interested readers to Feng et al. (2025); Mitchell et al.
(2025); Kasirzadeh & Gabriel (2025) for details on the interplay of autonomy and safety.
Specialized agents are good. This is a statement we hold alongside our stated position. The
two positions are not mutually exclusive; solving common problems is likely to create the best
building blocks for building specialized agents where those are worth the extra effort, and might
solve out-of-the-box other cases as well.
The foundation models should be general, not the agent. This view holds that the models
underlying the agents are still getting better, and incorporate more abilities, perhaps reaching the
generality criteria themselves. We do not focus here on whether more effort should be invested in
agents or models. Instead, we argue that, as agents are already being studied, it is useful to focus
increased effort on general ones.
General agentic systems can be harder to debug, or prone to compounding errors, compared
to narrowly engineered solutions. Indeed, general mechanisms often underperform specialized
ones on isolated benchmarks with well-defined assumptions (Zhou et al., 2022). However, historical
precedent suggests that such systems tend to fail more gracefully under distribution shift, whereas
specialized pipelines often fail catastrophically when their assumptions are violated (Miller et al.,
2021; Jin & Lee, 2025). For agents operating in open-ended settings with evolving tools, tasks, and
objectives, the cost of brittleness can dominate the gains from narrow optimization. We believe that
even if faced by such situations, each solution to such brittleness would aid more scenarios and attract
more research effort, making those costs worth it in the long run. Ample research, we posit, should
focus on long-term improvement rather than on current productization issues.
High volume, high Risk. This highlights the choice between central and distributive development.
Hence, we bring this view as important for the debate, although it has both a supporting and opposing
side to our position. Centralized development leverages “many eyes” to standardize code, reduce
initial errors, and ensure a coordinated response to vulnerabilities as similar copies can be widely
deployed (Raymond, 1999; Goldsmith & Eggers, 2005), where distributed development is built to
avoid forced updates (Baran, 1964; Singer & Friedman, 2013). Ultimately, centralization yields fewer
errors, but each can be system-wide with large effects.

BUILDING AN ECOSYSTEM FOR GENERAL AGENTS
We have portrayed above the goal of developing more general agents and discussed the existing and
future state of generality. In this section, we enumerate several aspects that we see as necessary steps
for the ecosystem as a whole to progress forward (e.g., evaluation and protocols). This section moves
from the basic building blocks that are already maturing towards more ambitious endeavors.
8.1
AGENTIC SKILLS
A general-purpose agent must possess core competencies such as reasoning, planning, and tool
calling, skills that form the common architecture of contemporary agents (Yao et al., 2022; Wang
et al., 2023b). These abilities are typically evaluated through static benchmarks where a textual
prompt requires a specific response. For instance, GSM8K (Cobbe et al., 2021) assesses step-by-step
mathematical reasoning, HotPotQA (Yang et al., 2018) tests multi-hop question answering, and BFCL
(Patil et al., 2023) measures tool-use proficiency. Because these benchmarks bypass the need for an
interactive loop, responses can be assessed independently. Consequently, while these foundational
skills remain essential for future development, they are already well-represented in current evaluation
frameworks.
8.2
INTERACTING WITH A DYNAMIC ENVIRONMENT
Agents are also expected to interact with their environment. Those might be stateful and complex:
while an LLM can apply tools and receive different responses each time, an ideal agent coordinates
tool use so they interact with each other and the environment to accomplish a goal.
Such environments are commonly built for evaluation and can be quite diverse. These include
Tau-Bench (Yao et al., 2024; Barres et al., 2025) for customer-service scenarios, AppWorld (Trivedi
et al., 2024) for multi-application tasks, WebArena (Zhou et al., 2024) for browser interactions,
TerminalBench (Team, 2025) for Linux command-line tasks, and SWE-Bench (Yang et al., 2025)
for solving GitHub issues. Each such environment is accompanied by tools and a benchmark for
testing. Further generalizations may call for environments where different agents interact (such as in
gameplay (Guertler et al., 2025)), and less strict environment-agent coupling, which we discuss next.
8.3
AGENT AGNOSTIC EVALUATION
Evaluation sets the goal for progress, making it crucial in directing development. Thus, when
benchmarks assume agents are designed uniquely for them, they implicitly signal that agents must be
specialized, not general.
We provide several examples where benchmarks implicitly assume the tested agent possesses certain built-in, domain-specific capabilities, preventing general agent development and hindering
comparisons across benchmarks (See also §A). For example:
Tau-Bench (Yao et al., 2024; Barres et al., 2025) assumes an agent that can inherently message or
converse with a user
class BaseAgent(ABC, Generic[AgentState]):
"""Base agent class."""
@abstractmethod
def generate_next_message(...,
message: UserMessage | ToolMessage)
-> AssistanceMessage:
...
WebArena (Zhou et al., 2024) assumes an agent whose entire perceptual and action space is mediated
through a browser interface:
class Agent:
def next_action(..., trajectory: Trajectory)
-> Action:
# ActionType: SCROLL, KEY_PRESS,
# MOUSE_CLICK, GOTO_URL, ...
...

TerminalBench (Team, 2025) assumes an agent whose interaction interface is a computer with a
command line:
class BaseEnvironment(ABC):
@abstractmethod
async def exec(..., command: str)
-> ExecResult:
"""Executes a command..."""
These assumptions are mutually incompatible. A web-browsing agent cannot converse with a
user, while a chat-oriented agent cannot click on a web element. Such rigid, benchmark-specific
communication protocols make cross-environment evaluation impossible without substantial ad hoc
engineering (See illustration in Fig.1).
Figure 1: Illustration of agents in different benchmarks and their incompatibility with the environment
constraints of other benchmarks. Tau-Bench assumes user messaging, which does not align with
TerminalBench or WebArena.
A few more general setups can evaluate the same agent on multiple environments without tailoring
the agentic pattern, protocol, or benchmark to each. Some works follow this approach: BrowserGym
(de Chezelles et al., 2025) standardizes browser interactions across web tasks, and Harbor (Team,
2025) provides a unified terminal protocol. By using a standard protocol, agents can be consistently
evaluated across environments, enabling comparisons across models and agent architectures.
Yet, current setups still impose a specific interaction mode. Agents built on different protocols cannot
be evaluated natively and must be adapted, creating a mismatch between their intended deployment
and evaluation. For instance, MCP-based agents such as Claude Code (Anthropic, 2023) cannot be
assessed as they are meant to operate.
8.4
SPECIFYING THE ENVIRONMENT’S AFFORDANCES
Just as evaluation should assume little about the agent, a general agent should assume little about
the environment. Thus, it must receive or collect the affordances of an unseen environment: what to
expect, what can be used, and how it is expected to act. This requires not only innovative protocols
but also the ability to learn and retain meta-information about new environments. Most environment
adaptation research focuses on open-world exploration (Feng et al., 2024; Anokhin et al., 2024;
Ma et al., 2025) or world modeling (Chae et al., 2024), yet rapid adaptation and learning to adapt
across environments remain underexplored. Part of it, might be a lack of fitting benchmarks. Current

benchmarks rarely define, in an agent-agnostic way, the tasks, observations, or action effects, forcing
developers to infer or invent these elements, which limits systematic progress.
Some benchmarks force the agent to be specific to the environment. For example, SWE-Bench
(Yang et al., 2025) defines the problems agents should solve but provides no standard instructions for
solving, validating, or structuring solutions. Thus, rewarding agents tailored to the benchmark, while
penalizing general deduction.
Other Benchmarks make the environment agent-specific. For example, Tau-Bench (Yao et al., 2024;
Barres et al., 2025) that provides environment-level specification but assumes a specific LLM agent
is used (See App. B and §8.3).
Across both cases, the core issue is the same: We lack a standardized, agent-agnostic interface that
cleanly communicates the task, available information, and action space.
8.5
STANDARDIZATION
A common driver for developing new and general technologies is standardization. We find ample
room for standardization in the field and provide several examples in this section.
Standard communication protocols offer great potential for development. For example, by providing a
common interface for agent-environment communication or separating Currently, as mentioned above,
each environment or benchmark requires custom integration scripts, unique logging conventions, and
bespoke output formats. However, despite advances in agent frameworks and protocols, such as MCP
(Anthropic, 2024) and A2A (Developers, 2025), there is still more to be done (See App. C).
Evaluation and analysis represent further areas where standardization is critical. Current benchmarks
lack consistency in how metrics are defined, labeled, and aggregated; furthermore, the reporting of
computational costs is often omitted or poorly documented (see App. C). Moreover, establishing
uniform logging formats would facilitate systematic failure analysis and the identification of performance bottlenecks, ultimately enabling more precise refinements to reasoning and decision-making
modules
Finally, standard protocols provide safety and reliability benefits as a natural byproduct. They
allow interventions and reduce unpredictable behavior by defining clear rules for agent interactions,
error handling, and escalation. Detailed logs further support retrospective abilities for debugging,
auditing, and compliance, ensuring that agents operate within defined boundaries. Critically, these
safety guarantees do not come at the cost of development speed, allowing teams to innovate while
maintaining predictable and trustworthy behavior.
8.6
COMPOSITIONALITY
A more ambitious yet high-potential objective is compositionality. Achieving a modular framework
would allow researchers to deploy identical agentic patterns across models and toolsets with minimal
reconfiguration. Such decoupling facilitates clearer credit assignment, as it isolates the performance
contributions of individual components, thereby enabling independent optimization of each layer (see
the “narrow waist” discussion in §6).
Some frameworks already strive towards compositionality, such as HAL (Kapoor et al., 2025b), which
compiled nine domain-specific benchmarks. Each environment in HAL comes allows switching
models, using the same agentic pattern. It does not, however, allow for adding general agents and
communicating the necessary information with them (See §8.4).
8.7
MODALITIES, AND EMBODIMENT
While language remains the cornerstone of agentic systems—often augmented by vision (Niu et al.,
2024; Schumann et al., 2024)—the next frontier lies in integrating diverse perceptual modalities,
novel sensing, and direct physical control. Early developments in robotics and embodied AI (Wang
et al., 2023a), alongside emerging foundation models in the sciences (Van Breugel & Van Der Schaar,
2024; Dalla-torre et al., 2024; Batatia et al., 2023), signal a departure toward agents that transcend
traditional computer interfaces. We advocate for expanding the operational scope of agents to include
heterogeneous foundation models and complex physical environments. Rather than prescribing

specific solutions, such as whether protein models should be treated as modular tools or integrated
protocols, we call for research that identifies generalizable principles across these diverse domains,
seeking a unified research agenda.
CONCLUSION
Current research and evaluation practices largely favor agents that are tightly coupled to specific
benchmarks, tools, or domains. We argued that such specialization is a transitional stage, and that
progress should increasingly prioritize general-purpose designs that can operate across unfamiliar
environments with minimal manual intervention.
Realizing this potential demands an ecosystem-level effort. Benchmarks, protocols, and evaluation
frameworks must all pivot from encoding agent-specific assumptions to explicitly describing environment affordances and interaction semantics. While specialized agents will continue to play an
important role, we contend that investing in general-purpose agentic systems provides a stronger
foundation for scalable, adaptable, and responsible AI agents operating in open-ended real-world
settings.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Use unnumbered third level headings for the acknowledgments. All acknowledgments, including
those to funding agencies, go at the end of the paper.
REFERENCES
Petr Anokhin, Nikita Semenov, Artyom Y. Sorokin, Dmitry Evseev, Mikhail S. Burtsev, and Evgeny
Burnaev. Arigraph: Learning knowledge graph world models with episodic memory for llm
agents. In International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2024. URL https://api.
semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:271039035.
Anthropic. Claude, 2023. URL https://code.claude.com. Large language model used to
generate code snippets.
Anthropic. Model context protocol (mcp).
urlhttps://modelcontextprotocol.io/, 2024. Accessed: YYYY-MM-DD.
Paul Baran. On distributed communications networks. IEEE transactions on Communications
Systems, 12(1):1–9, 1964.
Victor Barres, Honghua Dong, Soham Ray, Xujie Si, and Karthik Narasimhan. τ 2-bench: Evaluating
conversational agents in a dual-control environment, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2506.07982.
Ilyes Batatia, Philipp Benner, Chiang Yuan, A. Elena, D. Kov’acs, Janosh Riebesell, Xavier R
Advincula, M. Asta, William J. Baldwin, Noam Bernstein, Arghya Bhowmik, Samuel M. Blau,
Vlad Cuarare, James P Darby, Sandip De, Flaviano Della Pia, Volker L. Deringer, Rokas Elijovsius,
Zakariya El-Machachi, Edvin Fako, Andrea C. Ferrari, A. Genreith-Schriever, Janine George, Rhys
E. A. Goodall, Clare P. Grey, Shuang Han, Will Handley, H. H. Heenen, K. Hermansson, Christian
Holm, Jad Jaafar, Stephan Hofmann, Konstantin S. Jakob, Hyunwook Jung, V. Kapil, Aaron D.
Kaplan, Nima Karimitari, Namu Kroupa, J. Kullgren, Matthew C Kuner, Domantas Kuryla, Guoda
Liepuoniute, Johannes T. Margraf, Ioan B Magduau, A. Michaelides, J. H. Moore, A. Naik,
Samuel P Niblett, Sam Walton Norwood, Niamh O’Neill, Christoph Ortner, Kristin A. Persson,
K. Reuter, Andrew S. Rosen, Lars L. Schaaf, Christoph Schran, Eric Sivonxay, Tam´as K Stenczel,
Viktor Svahn, Christopher Sutton, Cas van der Oord, Eszter Varga-Umbrich, T. Vegge, Martin
Vondr’ak, Yangshuai Wang, William C. Witt, Fabian Zills, and G’abor Cs’anyi. A foundation
model for atomistic materials chemistry. The Journal of chemical physics, 163 18, 2023. URL
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/41230846.
Abeba Birhane, William Isaac, Vinodkumar Prabhakaran, Mark Diaz, Madeleine Clare Elish, Iason
Gabriel, and Shakir Mohamed. Power to the people? opportunities and challenges for participatory

ai. In Proceedings of the 2nd ACM Conference on Equity and Access in Algorithms, Mechanisms,
and Optimization, pp. 1–8, 2022.
Arth Bohra, Manvel Saroyan, Danil Melkozerov, Vahe Karufanyan, Gabriel Maher, Pascal Weinberger,
Artem Harutyunyan, and Giovanni Campagna. Weblists: Extracting structured information from
complex interactive websites using executable llm agents. ArXiv, abs/2504.12682, 2025. URL
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusId:277857561.
Jonathan Bragg, Mike D’Arcy, Nishant Balepur, Dan Bareket, Bhavana Dalvi, Sergey Feldman,
Dany Haddad, Jena D. Hwang, Peter Jansen, Varsha Kishore, Bodhisattwa Prasad Majumder,
Aakanksha Naik, Sigal Rahamimov, Kyle Richardson, Amanpreet Singh, Harshit Surana, Aryeh
Tiktinsky, Rosni Vasu, Guy Wiener, Chloe Anastasiades, Stefan Candra, Jason Dunkelberger, Dan
Emery, Rob Evans, Malachi Hamada, Regan Huff, Rodney Kinney, Matt Latzke, Jaron Lochner,
Ruben Lozano-Aguilera, Cecile Nguyen, Smita Rao, Amber Tanaka, Brooke Vlahos, Peter Clark,
Doug Downey, Yoav Goldberg, Ashish Sabharwal, and Daniel S. Weld. Astabench: Rigorous
benchmarking of ai agents with a scientific research suite, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2510.21652.
Greg Brockman, Vicki Cheung, Ludwig Pettersson, Jonas Schneider, John Schulman, Jie Tang, and
Wojciech Zaremba. Openai gym. arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.01540, 2016.
Vinton Cerf and Robert Kahn. A protocol for packet network intercommunication. IEEE Transactions
on communications, 22(5):637–648, 1974.
Hyungjoo Chae, Namyoung Kim, Kai Tzu-iunn Ong, Minju Gwak, Gwanwoo Song, Jihoon Kim,
Sunghwan Kim, Dongha Lee, and Jinyoung Yeo. Web agents with world models: Learning and
leveraging environment dynamics in web navigation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.13232, 2024.
David Clark. The design philosophy of the darpa internet protocols. In Symposium proceedings on
Communications architectures and protocols, pp. 106–114, 1988.
Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Mohammad Bavarian, Mark Chen, Heewoo Jun, Lukasz Kaiser,
Matthias Plappert, Jerry Tworek, Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro Nakano, Christopher Hesse, and John
Schulman. Training verifiers to solve math word problems, 2021. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2110.14168.
Allan Dafoe. Ai governance: a research agenda. Governance of AI Program, Future of Humanity
Institute, University of Oxford: Oxford, UK, 1442:1443, 2018.
Hugo Dalla-torre, Liam Gonzalez, Javier Mendoza Revilla, Nicol´as L´opez Carranza, Adam Henryk
Grzywaczewski, Francesco Oteri, Christian Dallago, Evan Trop, Hassan Sirelkhatim, Guillaume
Richard, Marcin J. Skwark, Karim Beguir, Marie Lopez, and Thomas Pierrot. The nucleotide
transformer: Building and evaluating robust foundation models for human genomics. bioRxiv,
2024. URL https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.01.11.523679.
Thibault Le Sellier de Chezelles, Maxime Gasse, Alexandre Lacoste, Massimo Caccia, Alexandre Drouin, L´eo Boisvert, Megh Thakkar, Tom Marty, Rim Assouel, Sahar Omidi Shayegan,
Lawrence Keunho Jang, Xing Han L`u, Ori Yoran, Dehan Kong, Frank F. Xu, Siva Reddy, Graham
Neubig, Quentin Cappart, Russ Salakhutdinov, and Nicolas Chapados. The browsergym ecosystem
for web agent research. Transactions on Machine Learning Research, 2025. ISSN 2835-8856.
URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=5298fKGmv3. Expert Certification.
Xiang Deng, Yu Gu, Boyuan Zheng, Shijie Chen, Sam Stevens, Boshi Wang, Huan Sun, and Yu Su.
Mind2web: Towards a generalist agent for the web. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 36:28091–28114, 2023.
Google Developers.
Announcing the agent2agent protocol (a2a):
A new era of agent
interoperability, April 2025.
URL https://developers.googleblog.com/en/
a2a-a-new-era-of-agent-interoperability/. Accessed: 2026-01-24.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. Bert: Pre-training of deep
bidirectional transformers for language understanding. In Proceedings of the 2019 conference of
the North American chapter of the association for computational linguistics: human language
technologies, volume 1 (long and short papers), pp. 4171–4186, 2019.

Kevin Feng, David W. McDonald, and Amy X. Zhang. Levels of autonomy for ai agents. Knight
First Amendment Institute at Columbia University, 2025. URL https://knightcolumbia.
org/content/levels-of-autonomy-for-ai-agents-1. Essay, July 28, 2025.
Yicheng Feng, Yuxuan Wang, Jiazheng Liu, Sipeng Zheng, and Zongqing Lu. Llama-rider: Spurring
large language models to explore the open world. In Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: NAACL 2024, pp. 4705–4724, 2024.
Erich Gamma. Design patterns: elements of reusable object-oriented software, 1995.
Tejas Gokhale, Swaroop Mishra, Man Luo, Bhavdeep Sachdeva, and Chitta Baral. Generalized but
not Robust? comparing the effects of data modification methods on out-of-domain generalization
and adversarial robustness. In Smaranda Muresan, Preslav Nakov, and Aline Villavicencio (eds.),
Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2022, pp. 2705–2718, Dublin,
Ireland, May 2022. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2022.findings-acl.
213. URL https://aclanthology.org/2022.findings-acl.213/.
Stephen Goldsmith and William D Eggers. Governing by network: The new shape of the public
sector. Bloomsbury Publishing USA, 2005.
Leon Guertler, Bobby Cheng, Simon Yu, Bo Liu, Leshem Choshen, and Cheston Tan. Textarena.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.11442, 2025.
Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song, Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu,
Shirong Ma, Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, et al. Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms
via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12948, 2025.
Yifeng He, Ethan Wang, Yuyang Rong, Zifei Cheng, and Hao Chen. Security of ai agents. In 2025
IEEE/ACM International Workshop on Responsible AI Engineering (RAIE), pp. 45–52. IEEE,
2025.
Kartik Hosanagar and Apoorv Saxena. The democratization of machine learning: What it means for
tech innovation. Knowledge@ Wharton, 2017.
Ming Jin and Hyunin Lee. Position: AI safety must embrace an antifragile perspective. In Fortysecond International Conference on Machine Learning Position Paper Track, 2025. URL https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=WpePuya3Ki.
Sayash Kapoor, Benedikt Stroebl, Peter Kirgis, Nitya Nadgir, Zachary S Siegel, Boyi Wei, Tianci
Xue, Ziru Chen, Felix Chen, Saiteja Utpala, Franck Ndzomga, Dheeraj Oruganty, Sophie Luskin,
Kangheng Liu, Botao Yu, Amit Arora, Dongyoon Hahm, Harsh Trivedi, Huan Sun, Juyong Lee,
Tengjun Jin, Yifan Mai, Yifei Zhou, Yuxuan Zhu, Rishi Bommasani, Daniel Kang, Dawn Song,
Peter Henderson, Yu Su, Percy Liang, and Arvind Narayanan. Holistic agent leaderboard: The
missing infrastructure for ai agent evaluation, 2025a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.
11977.
Sayash Kapoor, Benedikt Stroebl, Peter Kirgis, Nitya Nadgir, Zachary S Siegel, Boyi Wei, Tianci
Xue, Ziru Chen, Felix Chen, Saiteja Utpala, Franck Ndzomga, Dheeraj Oruganty, Sophie Luskin,
Kangheng Liu, Botao Yu, Amit Arora, Dongyoon Hahm, Harsh Trivedi, Huan Sun, Juyong Lee,
Tengjun Jin, Yifan Mai, Yifei Zhou, Yuxuan Zhu, Rishi Bommasani, Daniel Kang, Dawn Song,
Peter Henderson, Yu Su, Percy Liang, and Arvind Narayanan. Holistic agent leaderboard: The
missing infrastructure for ai agent evaluation. https://github.com/princeton-pli/
hal-harness/, 2025b.
Atoosa Kasirzadeh and Iason Gabriel. Characterizing ai agents for alignment and governance, 2025.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.21848.
Alex Krizhevsky, Ilya Sutskever, and Geoffrey E Hinton. Imagenet classification with deep convolutional neural networks. Advances in neural information processing systems, 25, 2012.
Thomas S Kuhn and Ian Hacking. The structure of scientific revolutions, volume 2. University of
Chicago press Chicago, 1970.

Junyu Luo, Weizhi Zhang, Ye Yuan, Yusheng Zhao, Junwei Yang, Yiyang Gu, Bohan Wu, Binqi
Chen, Ziyue Qiao, Qingqing Long, et al. Large language model agent: A survey on methodology,
applications and challenges. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.21460, 2025.
Rachel Ma, Jingyi Qu, Andreea Bobu, and Dylan Hadfield-Menell. Open-universe assistance
games. In First Workshop on Multi-Turn Interactions in Large Language Models, 2025. URL
https://openreview.net/forum?id=hIXaL3a9Ky.
Jiya Manchanda, Laura Boettcher, Matheus Westphalen, and Jasser Jasser. The open source advantage
in large language models (llms). arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.12004, 2024.
Sami Marreed, Alon Oved, Avi Yaeli, Segev Shlomov, Ido Levy, Offer Akrabi, Aviad Sela, Asaf
Adi, and Nir Mashkif. Towards enterprise-ready computer using generalist agent, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01861.
MCP
Project.
Getting
started
with
the
model
context
protocol.
https://
modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/getting-started/intro,
2025.
URL
https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/getting-started/intro.
Accessed: 2026-01-22.
John P Miller, Rohan Taori, Aditi Raghunathan, Shiori Sagawa, Pang Wei Koh, Vaishaal Shankar,
Percy Liang, Yair Carmon, and Ludwig Schmidt. Accuracy on the line: on the strong correlation
between out-of-distribution and in-distribution generalization. In International conference on
machine learning, pp. 7721–7735. PMLR, 2021.
Margaret Mitchell, Avijit Ghosh, Alexandra Sasha Luccioni, and Giada Pistilli. Fully autonomous ai
agents should not be developed, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.02649.
Runliang Niu, Jindong Li, Shiqi Wang, Yali Fu, Xiyu Hu, Xueyuan Leng, He Kong, Yi Chang, and
Qi Wang. Screenagent: A vision language model-driven computer control agent. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.07945, 2024.
Shishir G. Patil, Tianjun Zhang, Xin Wang, and Joseph E. Gonzalez. Gorilla: Large language model
connected with massive apis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.15334, 2023.
Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi
Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J Liu. Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text
transformer. Journal of machine learning research, 21(140):1–67, 2020.
Eric Raymond. The cathedral and the bazaar. Knowledge, Technology & Policy, 12(3):23–49, 1999.
Scott Reed, Konrad Zolna, Emilio Parisotto, Sergio G´omez Colmenarejo, Alexander Novikov, Gabriel
Barth-maron, Mai Gim´enez, Yury Sulsky, Jackie Kay, Jost Tobias Springenberg, et al. A generalist
agent. Transactions on Machine Learning Research, 2022.
Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dess`ı, Roberta Raileanu, Maria Lomeli, Eric Hambro, Luke
Zettlemoyer, Nicola Cancedda, and Thomas Scialom. Toolformer: Language models can teach
themselves to use tools. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:68539–68551,
2023.
Raphael Schumann, Wanrong Zhu, Weixi Feng, Tsu-Jui Fu, Stefan Riezler, and William Yang Wang.
Velma: Verbalization embodiment of llm agents for vision and language navigation in street view.
In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 38, pp. 18924–18933,
2024.
David Sculley, Gary Holt, Daniel Golovin, Eugene Davydov, Todd Phillips, Dietmar Ebner, Vinay
Chaudhary, Michael Young, Jean-Francois Crespo, and Dan Dennison. Hidden technical debt in
machine learning systems. Advances in neural information processing systems, 28, 2015.
Shai Shalev-Shwartz and Shai Ben-David.
Understanding machine learning: From theory to
algorithms. Cambridge university press, 2014.

Harshith Sheggam and Xiaowen Zhang. Exploring security risks and mitigation strategies in AI code
helpers. In 2024 IEEE Long Island Systems, Applications and Technology Conference (LISAT), pp.
1–6. IEEE, 2024.
Peter Warren Singer and Allan Friedman. Cybersecurity and cyberwar: What everyone needs to
know®. Oxford University Press, 2013.
S ˜Ak¸ren Sonnenburg, Mikio L Braun, Cheng Soon Ong, Samy Bengio, Leon Bottou, Geoffrey Holmes,
Yann LeCun, Klaus-Robert M ˜Aˇzller, Fernando Pereira, Carl Edward Rasmussen, et al. The need
for open source software in machine learning. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 8(Oct):
2443–2466, 2007.
Richard Sutton. The bitter lesson. Incomplete Ideas (blog), 13(1):38, 2019.
Qiaoyu Tang, Ziliang Deng, Hongyu Lin, Xianpei Han, Qiao Liang, Boxi Cao, and Le Sun.
Toolalpaca:
Generalized tool learning for language models with 3000 simulated cases.
ArXiv, abs/2306.05301, 2023a. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusId:
259108190.
Xiangru Tang, Anni Zou, Zhuosheng Zhang, Yilun Zhao, Xingyao Zhang, Arman Cohan, and Mark B.
Gerstein. Medagents: Large language models as collaborators for zero-shot medical reasoning.
ArXiv, abs/2311.10537, 2023b. URL https://arxiv.org/pdf/2311.10537.pdf.
The Terminal-Bench Team. Terminal-bench: A benchmark for ai agents in terminal environments,
Apr 2025. URL https://github.com/laude-institute/terminal-bench.
Harsh Trivedi, Tushar Khot, Mareike Hartmann, Ruskin Manku, Vinty Dong, Edward Li, Shashank
Gupta, Ashish Sabharwal, and Niranjan Balasubramanian. AppWorld: A controllable world of
apps and people for benchmarking interactive coding agents. In Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins,
and Vivek Srikumar (eds.), Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 16022–16076, Bangkok, Thailand,
August 2024. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.850.
URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.acl-long.850/.
Leslie G. Valiant. A theory of the learnable. Communications of the ACM, 27(11):1134–1142, 1984.
doi: 10.1145/1968.1972.
Boris Van Breugel and Mihaela Van Der Schaar. Why tabular foundation models should be a research
priority. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.01147, 2024.
Guanzhi Wang, Yuqi Xie, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Mandlekar, Chaowei Xiao, Yuke Zhu, Linxi Fan, and
Anima Anandkumar. Voyager: An open-ended embodied agent with large language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2305.16291, 2023a.
Lei Wang, Wanyu Xu, Yihuai Lan, Zhiqiang Hu, Yunshi Lan, Roy Ka-Wei Lee, and Ee-Peng Lim.
Plan-and-solve prompting: Improving zero-shot chain-of-thought reasoning by large language
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.04091, 2023b.
Xingyao Wang, Yangyi Chen, Lifan Yuan, Yizhe Zhang, Yunzhu Li, Hao Peng, and Heng Ji.
Executable code actions elicit better llm agents. In Forty-first International Conference on Machine
Learning, 2024.
Zhiyong Wu, Chengcheng Han, Zichen Ding, Zhenmin Weng, Zhoumianze Liu, Shunyu Yao, Tao
Yu, and Lingpeng Kong. Os-copilot: Towards generalist computer agents with self-improvement.
ArXiv, abs/2402.07456, 2024. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusId:
267626905.
John Yang, Carlos E Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik R Narasimhan,
and Ofir Press. SWE-agent: Agent-computer interfaces enable automated software engineering.
In The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.15793.

John Yang, Kilian Lieret, Carlos E. Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kabir Khandpur, Yanzhe Zhang,
Binyuan Hui, Ofir Press, Ludwig Schmidt, and Diyi Yang. Swe-smith: Scaling data for software
engineering agents, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.21798.
Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Bengio, William W. Cohen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov,
and Christopher D. Manning. Hotpotqa: A dataset for diverse, explainable multi-hop question
answering, 2018. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.09600.
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik R Narasimhan, and Yuan
Cao. React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In The eleventh international
conference on learning representations, 2022.
Shunyu Yao, Noah Shinn, Pedram Razavi, and Karthik Narasimhan. τ-bench: A benchmark for
tool-agent-user interaction in real-world domains, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2406.12045.
Hongjian Zhou, Boyang Gu, Xinyu Zou, Jinfa Huang, Yiru Li, Sam S. Chen, Peilin Zhou, Junling
Liu, Y. Hua, Chengfeng Mao, Xian Wu, Zheng Li, and Fenglin Liu. A survey of large language
models in medicine: Progress, application, and challenge. ArXiv, abs/2311.05112, 2023. URL
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusId:265067484.
Kaiyang Zhou, Ziwei Liu, Yu Qiao, Tao Xiang, and Chen Change Loy. Domain generalization: A
survey. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence, 45(4):4396–4415, 2022.
Shuyan Zhou, Frank F. Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng,
Tianyue Ou, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, Uri Alon, and Graham Neubig. Webarena: A realistic
web environment for building autonomous agents, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2307.13854.

Level
Cross-model
Interaction
Cross-env.
Cross-agent
Prot.-agnostic
Examples
1: Agentic skills
Yes
No
No
No
No
BFCL, GSM8K
2: Interactive model
Yes
Yes
No
No
No
Tau-Bench, WebArena
3: Cross-model harness
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
No
HAL
4: Protocol-centric
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
BrowserGym, Harbor
5: General evaluation
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
(missing)
Table A.1: Comparison of five levels of agent evaluation, highlighting cross-model, cross-environment,
cross-agent, and protocol coverage.
A
THE GENERALITY OF DIFFERENT EVALUATION BENCHMARKS.
In Table A.1 we provide a classification of different benchmarks and how general they are.
Cross-model means that the can evaluate multiple agents (or models in the agentic skills case),
whether they test interactiveness, multiple environments, multiple general agents, and whether those
agents can operate in the way they expect or need to be adapted to the benchmarks.
B
AN EXAMPLE FROM TAU BENCH.
We bring an example of how environment details are shared with the agents, but it is done through an
instruction to the agent, assuming this is how the agent operates, and not, for example, through API
calls.
AGENT_INSTRUCTION = """
You are a customer service agent that helps the user according to the <policy> provided below.
In each turn you can either:
- Send a message to the user.
- Make a tool call.
You cannot do both at the same time.
Try to be helpful and always follow the policy. Always make sure you generate valid JSON only.
"""
While this instruction block expresses important aspects of the task, it mixes them with assumptions
specific to a particular agent design—such as turn-by-turn interaction rules, usage of tools and JSON
output formatting. These constraints make sense for a conversational LLM but do not generalize to
other types of agents, such as code-act agents.
C
MORE ON PROTOCOL STANDARDIZATION
We expand on examples where current protocols may be more standard. We consider the common
MCP protocol as a case study for whether existing protocols suffice for developing general agents.
MCP defines three core primitives: tools (invocable operations), resources (exposed data/content),
and prompts (parameterized templates), along with mechanisms for streaming events and updates.
While MCP provides a promising foundation for unifying agent-environment interaction, several
gaps prevent it from serving as a complete solution for general-agent evaluation:
• Missing Support for Benchmark Task Semantics. Benchmarks center around tasks—the
defined goal an agent is supposed to achieve. MCP does not offer a built-in way to represent or
communicate such tasks. One could require that tasks always appear in either prompts, resources,
or events, but doing so would essentially create a new protocol on top of MCP. Lacking a way to
communicate it, we assume the task is somehow manually defined.
• Missing Support for Evaluation Workflows. Evaluation requires more than interaction; it
depends on standardized metrics reporting, aggregation, logging, experiment tracking, and reproducibility. MCP is intentionally agnostic to these needs.
• Inconsistent Ecosystem Adoption. Support for MCP remains uneven: many frameworks
implement tool calling but not resources or prompts, resulting in inconsistent capabilities and
substantial integration overhead (Table C.1).

Agent / Framework
Tools
Resources
Prompts
Smolagents
Yes
No
No
Llama Stack
Yes
No
No
OpenAI Agents SDK
Yes
No
Yes
Codex CLI
Yes
No
No
Claude Code
Yes
Yes
No
Table C.1: MCP integration across common agent frameworks. In many cases, only partial protocol
components are implemented.
Metric type
Tau-Bench
AppWorld
SWE-Bench
Success (bool)
Reward = 1
success
Resolved
Score (float)
Reward
Score
–
Termination
Termination reason
–
–
Duration
Duration
–
–
Interactions count
Num messages
Steps
–
Agent cost
Agent cost
–
–
Environment cost
User cost
–
–
Task ID
Task ID
Task ID
Instance ID
Logs
Message log
Task logs
Test logs
Success rate (agg)
Avg reward
Goal completion
Resolved counts
Cost aggregate (agg)
Avg agent cost
–
–
Table C.2: Metrics differ across benchmarks, with incompatible names and formats even for basic
success and cost reporting.
These limitations indicate that while protocols like MCP and A2A lay important groundwork, they
do not yet meet the full requirements of standardized general-agent evaluation.
C.1
STANDARDIZATION TO EASE DEVELOPMENT
Just like the agents that require standard specification, so do researchers and developers. To support
seamless experimentation—without hours spent integrating each new environment—researcher-facing
interfaces must also be standardized and simplified. Today, every environment demands its own
setup, scripts, and output formats. Researchers repeatedly lose time to these inconsistencies and risk
introducing avoidable integration errors. This was done well in various non-agentic contexts, such
as specifying hundreds of games (Guertler et al., 2025) or Reinforcement Learning Environments
(Brockman et al., 2016) in the same format.
One example of this fragmentation is the process of collecting and interpreting results. Benchmarks report outcomes in different formats, store them in different locations, and follow different conventions.
As shown in Table C.2, even the basic metrics differ across three representative benchmarks—not
only in which quantities are tracked, but also in terminology and aggregation standards used.
A simple notion like success appears as a Boolean resolved flag in SWE-bench, a success field in
AppWorld, and an implicit reward of 1 in Tau-bench. Interaction cost is reported as agent cost and
user cost in Tau-bench but omitted entirely in AppWorld and SWE-bench. Even when benchmarks
measure conceptually similar quantities, they adopt incompatible formats, naming conventions, and
aggregation methods.
These gaps underscore the need for consolidation and standardization to make large-scale evaluation
of general agents feasible. This is not just a convenience—given the growing complexity of modern
benchmarks, it is the only viable path to scalable general agent research.