Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
UNDERSTANDING METACOGNITION IN MULTI-AGENT
LLMS: ROUTING, NOT REASONING
Anonymous authors
Paper under double-blind review
ABSTRACT
Multi-agent reasoning and metacognitive strategies are widely employed to enhance large language model (LLM) performance; however, the functional role
of metacognition remains unclear.
Most existing approaches implicitly treat
metacognition as a mechanism for generating improved or more diverse reasoning.
In this work, we argue that metacognition primarily acts as an information routing
and compression mechanism rather than a generator of new reasoning content. We
introduce MC-MAS, an inference-time framework that separates problem solving
from metacognitive arbitration, where independent solvers propose candidate answers and a metacognitive arbiter critiques and consolidates these outputs. Using
routing-centric metrics such as semantic novelty, entropy reduction, and overconfidence errors, we analyze information flow across four reasoning benchmarks and
multiple model settings. Results show that MC-MAS yields limited novelty but
consistently reduces uncertainty and overconfident errors, with accuracy gains that
are modest and dataset-dependent. We also find that reliable improvements arise
from structured arbitration rather than reflection or increased sampling alone.
INTRODUCTION
Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly relying on multi-step inference strategies, such as
self-consistency (Wan et al., 2025; Mitchell et al., 2022), majority voting (Chen et al., 2024a), and
multi-agent ensembles (Chowdhury et al., 2025), to improve their robustness on reasoning tasks.
While these approaches often yield accuracy gains, they implicitly assume that performance improvements arise from generating better reasoning traces or from sampling more diverse answers
(Wei et al., 2022; Yao et al., 2022; Zhou et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2022). As a result, it remains unclear what role metacognition actually plays in multi-agent systems: does it create new information,
or does it primarily organize, filter, and route existing reasoning signals?
Despite the growing adoption of metacognitive and multi-agent reasoning strategies, their functional
role remains poorly characterized. Many recent methods report performance improvements without
disentangling whether these gains stem from stronger reasoning, increased aggregation of sampled
answers, or implicit uncertainty filtering effects (Da et al., 2025; Jin et al., 2025). This ambiguity
makes it difficult to determine when metacognitive mechanisms are truly necessary, how they should
be designed, or when their additional computational cost is justified. As multi-agent systems are
increasingly deployed in settings where reliability and calibration matter as much as raw accuracy,
a clearer understanding of what metacognition actually contributes becomes essential.
In this work, we argue that metacognition in LLMs is best understood as an information routing
mechanism rather than a generator of new reasoning content. To test this hypothesis, we introduce
MC-MAS (Metacognitive Multi-Agent System), a lightweight inference-time framework that separates problem solving from metacognitive arbitration. MC-MAS consists of two independent solvers
that propose candidate solutions, followed by a metacognitive stage that critiques, compares, and
arbitrates among these proposals. Crucially, the arbiter does not introduce new task-specific knowledge or external supervision; instead, it primarily restructures and consolidates information already
present in solver outputs, without reliably increasing semantic novelty.
Unlike prior ensemble or self-consistency methods (Chowdhury et al., 2025; Wan et al., 2025;
Mitchell et al., 2022), MC-MAS is explicitly designed to expose and measure information flow

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
across reasoning stages. We develop a set of routing-centric metrics, including semantic novelty,
redundancy, entropy reduction, compression ratio, and overconfidence errors, to quantify how information evolves from solvers to the final decision. This facilitates analysis beyond accuracy-only
evaluations and allows us to directly assess whether metacognition synthesizes new evidence or
merely redistributes existing signals. Our results indicate that a substantial portion of previously reported “reasoning gain” in multi-agent LLM systems may be explained by uncertainty compression
through structured aggregation, rather than enhanced reasoning capability.
Across four diverse reasoning benchmarks: BoolQ (Clark et al., 2019), ARC-Easy (Clark et al.,
2018), StrategyQA (Geva et al., 2021), and GSM8K (Cobbe et al., 2021)—and multiple model configurations (Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3 and LLaMA-3.1-8B-Instruct, both full-precision and 4-bit),
we observe a consistent pattern: MC-MAS rarely increases semantic novelty, but reliably reduces
answer entropy and improves confidence calibration. In many cases, accuracy improvements are
modest or absent, yet entropy decreases and overconfidence errors are reduced, indicating improved
decision reliability even when raw performance remains unchanged. Importantly, these trends persist under aggressive quantization, demonstrating that metacognitive routing remains effective even
when generative capacity is constrained. Overall, this work makes three key contributions:
• Conceptual: We reframe metacognition in LLMs as an information routing and compression mechanism rather than a source of new reasoning.
• Methodological: We introduce MC-MAS, a simple yet interpretable multi-agent framework that cleanly separates solving, reflection, and arbitration.
• Empirical: Through detailed routing-level analysis, we demonstrate that metacognitive
systems primarily improve confidence calibration, stability, and reliability, with accuracy
gains emerging only when solver disagreement is meaningful.
By shifting the focus from how many answers are sampled to how information is structured and consolidated, this work provides a principled foundation for analyzing and designing future metacognitive and multi-agent reasoning systems.
RELATED WORKS
Multi-Agent and Self-Consistency Reasoning.
Recent work has shown that aggregating multiple
reasoning trajectories can improve LLM performance on complex tasks (Ge et al., 2023; Yuan
et al., 2024; Yang et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025b). Techniques such as self-consistency (Wan
et al., 2025; Tan et al., 2024), majority voting (Chen et al., 2024b; Zhuge et al., 2024), and multisample ensembling (Chowdhury et al., 2025) leverage stochastic decoding to lower variance and
mitigate individual reasoning errors. Extensions include debate-based systems (Ozaki et al., 2025),
multi-agent collaboration (Zhang et al., 2025b), and role-based prompting (Louatouate & Zeriouh,
2025), where agents critique or refine one another’s outputs (Yu et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025c).
While these methods often yield accuracy gains, they are typically evaluated only in terms of final
performance and rely on implicit assumptions that improvements arise from better reasoning traces
or increased diversity Wei et al. (2022); Yao et al. (2022); Zhou et al. (2022); Wang et al. (2022). In
contrast, they offer limited insight into how information evolves across reasoning stages or whether
additional components genuinely contribute new task-relevant information.
Metacognition, Reflection, and Calibration in LLM.
A parallel line of work explores reflection
(Zhang et al., 2025c), critique (Lan et al., 2024), and self-evaluation (Qu et al., 2024; Wang et al.,
2025a; Mehandru et al., 2024) as mechanisms for improving reasoning quality and robustness. Prior
studies show that reflective prompts can increase factual consistency (Laban et al., 2023), surface
errors, or enhance calibration (Tyen et al., 2024; Song et al., 2025) under certain settings. However, reflection is often conflated with improved reasoning (Jiang et al., 2025), and its effects are
inconsistently linked to accuracy or reliability. Moreover, most techniques treat metacognition as an
auxiliary reasoning step rather than an analyzable process (Fan et al., 2025; Qian et al., 2025). Our
work differs by explicitly modeling metacognition as an information routing and compression layer
and by introducing routing-centric metrics to directly measure its functional role. This allows us to
disentangle novelty generation from uncertainty reduction and to show that reliable gains emerge
primarily from structured arbitration rather than reflection alone.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Figure 1: Overview of MC-MAS, illustrating how sampled solver outputs are routed through critique and arbitration stages to transform an empirical answer distribution into a calibrated consensus
decision.
MULTI-AGENT METACOGNITIVE FRAMEWORK: MC-MAS
3.1
PROBLEM SETUP
Let x denote an input instance (e.g., a question or problem description) drawn from a dataset D,
and let y ∈Y be the corresponding ground-truth answer. Given a pretrained large language model
(LLM) fθ, our goal is to improve decision reliability at inference time without modifying model
parameters or introducing external supervision.
We consider the setting where multiple reasoning trajectories can be sampled from fθ due to stochastic decoding. Existing approaches such as self-consistency or majority voting aggregate these samples directly, implicitly assuming that performance gains arise from generating better reasoning
traces. In contrast, we explicitly separate problem solving from metacognitive arbitration and study
how information flows between these stages.
3.2
OVERVIEW OF MC-MAS
The Metacognitive Multi-Agent System (MC-MAS) consists of three stages: (i) independent solver
generation, (ii) reflective critique, and (iii) metacognitive arbitration. A schematic overview is shown
in Figure 1. Two independent solver agents generate multiple sampled reasoning paths, forming an
empirical answer distribution. Critic agents then reflect on solver outputs to identify errors and highlight supporting evidence, without directly selecting an answer. A metacognitive arbiter performs
multi-sample arbitration over solver outputs and critiques, consolidating information to produce a
final consensus decision. This process primarily enables entropy reduction, confidence calibration,
and consensus formation through structured information routing rather than generating new taskspecific reasoning. Fundamentally, all components share the same underlying LLM fθ; MC-MAS
introduces no additional task-specific knowledge and operates purely at inference time.
3.3
SOLVER GENERATION
Given input x, we instantiate two independent solver agents that generate sets of stochastic reasoning
trajectories Si from fθ:
Si = {s(k)
i
}Ks
k=1,
s(k)
i
∼pθ(· | x),
i ∈{1, 2},
(1)
where Ks is the number of solver samples per agent.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Each solver sample produces both a textual reasoning trace and a final answer a(k)
i
∈Y. The union
of all solver answers induces an empirical answer distribution:
psolver(y | x) =
2Ks
X
i=1
Ks
X
k=1
I[a(k)
i
= y].
(2)
This distribution captures the initial uncertainty and disagreement among solvers.
3.4
REFLECTION AND CRITIQUE
For each solver, we generate a reflective critique that evaluates the solver’s reasoning without modifying its answer. Let ˜si denote a representative solver trace (e.g., the first sample) from solver i. A
reflection is generated as:
ri ∼pθ(· | x, ˜si),
(3)
where the reflection prompt instructs the model to identify errors, gaps, or alternative interpretations.
Reflections are treated as auxiliary semantic signals. Importantly, they do not directly determine the
final answer and are not required to agree with the solver. Their role is to expose latent inconsistencies and highlight relevant evidence for downstream arbitration.
3.5
METACOGNITIVE ARBITRATION
The arbitration stage integrates solver outputs and reflections to produce a final decision. We sample
Ka arbitration responses:
a(m) ∼pθ(· | x, ˜s1, ˜s2, r1, r2),
m = 1, . . . , Ka.
(4)
Here, a(m) ∈Y denotes the discrete final answer extracted from the m-th arbitration response.
These samples define the arbitration-induced answer distribution:
parb(y | x) =
Ka
Ka
X
m=1
I[a(m) = y].
(5)
The final MC-MAS prediction is obtained by majority vote:
ˆyMC-MAS = arg max
y∈Y parb(y | x).
(6)
We analyze the computational implications of increasing Ka, along with scaling behavior and testtime complexity, in Appendix A.4 and Appendix A.5.
3.6
UNCERTAINTY AND INFORMATION MEASURES
To analyze information flow, we compute entropy before and after arbitration:
Hsolver(x) = −
X
y
psolver(y | x) log psolver(y | x),
(7)
Harb(x) = −
X
y
parb(y | x) log parb(y | x).
(8)
Entropy reduction,
∆H(x) = Hsolver(x) −Harb(x),
(9)
quantifies uncertainty compression induced by metacognitive arbitration.
We additionally measure semantic novelty and redundancy by embedding solver and arbiter claims
and computing pairwise cosine similarity. These metrics allow us to distinguish between information
generation (high novelty) and information consolidation (entropy reduction with low novelty).

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
3.7
INTERPRETATION
Under this formulation, MC-MAS does not aim to maximize novelty. Instead, it seeks to reduce
decision uncertainty by routing, filtering, and consolidating existing solver information. Multisample arbitration is essential: as Ka →1, arbitration becomes unstable, while larger Ka enables
consensus formation and reliable entropy compression. This formalization directly motivates our
empirical evaluation and ablation studies.
3.8
RELATION TO MAJORITY VOTING AND SELF-CONSISTENCY
Although MC-MAS ultimately produces a consensus prediction, it differs fundamentally from majority voting and self-consistency. Majority voting aggregates solver outputs directly by treating all
samples as equally informative and lacking an explicit mechanism for uncertainty regulation (Yang
et al., 2024). In contrast, MC-MAS performs arbitration over both solver outputs and reflective
critiques, allowing selective consolidation based on semantic consistency and confidence. As a result, MC-MAS can reduce entropy and overconfidence even when the majority answer is incorrect,
as shown in Table 4. This distinction highlights that MC-MAS operates as an information routing
mechanism rather than a simple aggregation strategy.
INFORMATION ROUTING AND CALIBRATION METRICS
Although semantic novelty, redundancy, and entropy are not conventional task-level metrics, they
are principled information-theoretic quantities used to analyze distributions and uncertainty in probabilistic and neural models (Guo et al., 2017; Farquhar et al., 2024). We use them not as substitutes
for accuracy, but to expose how information flows, compresses, and stabilizes across multi-agent
reasoning stages—phenomena that accuracy alone cannot capture.
Answer Entropy.
Answer entropy calculates the uncertainty of a model’s decision based on the
empirical distribution of sampled answers. Given a set of answers {y1, . . . , yN} produced by solvers
or by the arbiter, we define
H(Y ) = −
X
c∈C
p(c) log p(c),
(10)
where p(c) is the fraction of samples predicting class c. Lower entropy indicates higher consensus
and confidence. In MC-MAS, entropy reduction reflects effective consolidation of solver disagreement rather than increased sampling.
Entropy Reduction.
To quantify uncertainty compression across stages, we compute the entropy
decrease between solver outputs and the arbiter decision:
∆H = Hsolver −Harb.
(11)
Positive ∆H indicates successful uncertainty compression, while values near zero imply that arbitration does not alter an already confident decision. Negative values correspond to low-uncertainty
regimes where further compression is unnecessary.
Semantic Novelty.
Semantic novelty measures how much new semantic content is introduced by a
metacognitive stage relative to solver outputs. We extract sentence-level claims from model outputs
and compute their embedding similarity using a pretrained sentence encoder. Given final-stage
claims F and solver claims S, novelty is defined as
Novelty =
|F|
X
f∈F
I

max
s∈S sim(f, s) < τ

,
(12)
where τ is a similarity threshold. High novelty indicates the introduction of new semantic signals,
while low novelty suggests information reuse or reorganization.
Redundancy.
Redundancy captures semantic overlap within the combined set of claims produced
during inference. It is computed as the average pairwise cosine similarity among all extracted claims.
Lower redundancy indicates more diverse information, while higher redundancy reflects repetition
or agreement among reasoning paths.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Compression Ratio.
We define a compression ratio to summarize the degree of uncertainty consolidation:
Compression = 1 −Harb
Hsolver
.
(13)
Higher values correspond to stronger information compression achieved by metacognitive arbitration.
Overconfident Errors.
Overconfident errors measure calibration failures where incorrect predictions are made with high confidence. An error is counted as overconfident if the predicted class
probability exceeds a fixed threshold (0.7 in our experiments) while being incorrect. Lower counts
indicate improved confidence calibration and reliability.
4.1
EXPERIMENTAL CONFIGURATION
All experiments are conducted in a zero-shot setting: models receive only task instructions and inputs, without any in-context examples, fine-tuning, or external supervision. We evaluate publicly
available instruction-tuned language models, including Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3 and LLaMA-3.18B-Instruct, under both full-precision and 4-bit quantized inference using NF4 quantization. Inference is performed locally using HuggingFace Transformers with deterministic decoding seeds
fixed across 3 runs. For each input, two independent solver instances of the same backbone model
generate 5 stochastic samples each using temperature 0.6, without sharing intermediate states or information. Reflection stages use temperature 0.2, while metacognitive arbitration uses temperature
0.4 with 50 arbitration samples unless otherwise specified. All solver, reflection, and arbitration
agents share the same underlying backbone language model. Experiments are conducted on BoolQ,
ARC-Easy, StrategyQA, and GSM8K, with 200 randomly selected validation examples per dataset.
See Appendix A.3 for dataset and task details. All experiments were conducted on a single NVIDIA
A800 GPU with 80GB of memory, enabling local inference for both full-precision and 4-bit quantized models without requiring distributed execution. See the prompt templates and pseudocode in
Appendix A.1.
RESULTS ANALYSIS
Comparison with the Strongest Individual Solver.
Table 1 compares MC-MAS against the
strongest individual solver across multiple model families, precision settings, and reasoning benchmarks. On simpler tasks such as BoolQ and ARC-Easy, MC-MAS closely matches the best solver,
with performance differences typically within ±0.1 percentage points and well inside run-to-run
variance. This suggests that metacognitive arbitration does not degrade performance when solver
agreement is already high and the decision boundary is clear. In contrast, on more reasoningintensive benchmarks, StrategyQA and GSM8K, MC-MAS consistently yields measurable improvements of approximately +1.7 to +1.9 points over the best solver. These gains are observed under
4-bit quantization and remain stable across independent runs, indicating that MC-MAS effectively
consolidates solver disagreement without relying on increased model capacity or higher-precision
representations. Notably, the absence of improvements on simpler datasets, combined with consistent gains on harder benchmarks, suggests that MC-MAS does not function as a generic accuracy
booster. Instead, its benefits emerge specifically in regimes where solver uncertainty and disagreement are substantial. All these results support the interpretation that MC-MAS primarily improves
decision consolidation and reliability, while preserving strong baseline performance under both fullprecision and quantized inference settings.
Information Routing and Compression Analysis.
To understand how metacognitive arbitration
transforms solver outputs beyond accuracy, we analyze routing-level information metrics. Table 2
reports these metrics for the same MC-MAS framework instantiated with different backbone language models and precision settings. Across all configurations, MC-MAS introduces modest semantic novelty while consistently reducing redundancy. Entropy generally decreases, indicating
effective consolidation of solver disagreement, particularly on ARC-Easy with Mistral-7B. In a few
cases, entropy changes are near zero or slightly negative, reflecting low-uncertainty regimes where
further compression is neither necessary nor beneficial. Overall, these trends support the view that

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Base Model
Prec. Dataset
Best Solver Acc (%) MC-MAS Acc(%)
∆
Mistral-7B
4-bit BoolQ
90.1±0.4
90.2±0.3
+0.1
Mistral-7B
Full BoolQ
86.2±0.5
86.1±0.4
−0.1
Mistral-7B
4-bit ARC-Easy
84.3±0.6
84.4±0.5
+0.1
Mistral-7B
Full ARC-Easy
80.4±0.7
82.1±0.6
+1.7
LLaMA-3.1-8B 4-bit BoolQ
88.2±0.4
88.3±0.3
+0.1
LLaMA-3.1-8B 4-bit ARC-Easy
87.9±0.6
88.0±0.5
+0.1
LLaMA-3.1-8B 4-bit StrategyQA
66.1±0.8
68.0±0.7
+1.9
LLaMA-3.1-8B 4-bit GSM8K
78.3±0.7
80.2±0.6
+1.9
Table 1:
Comparison between the strongest individual solver and MC-MAS across base models,
precisions, and datasets. MC-MAS consistently matches the best solver on simpler tasks (BoolQ,
ARC-Easy), while yielding consistent improvements on reasoning-intensive benchmarks (StrategyQA, GSM8K), without degrading performance under 4-bit quantization.
MC-MAS functions primarily as an information routing and compression mechanism rather than a
generator of new reasoning content.
Base Model
Dataset
Novelty(%) ↑Redundancy(%) ↓
Entropy ↓
Compression
Mistral-7B (4-bit)
BoolQ
9.7±0.6
44.7±1.2
0.046±0.018
0.271±0.031
Mistral-7B (Full)
BoolQ
20.0±0.9
43.6±1.0
0.017±0.021
0.477±0.042
Mistral-7B (4-bit)
ARC-Easy
49.1±1.3
43.7±1.1
0.227±0.032
0.548±0.038
Mistral-7B (Full)
ARC-Easy
51.2±1.5
42.2±1.0
−0.007†
±0.028
0.575±0.041
LLaMA-3.1-8B (4-bit) BoolQ
2.0±0.4
38.2±0.9
0.036±0.019
0.027±0.014
LLaMA-3.1-8B (4-bit) ARC-Easy
12.8±0.8
39.6±1.1
−0.065†
±0.034
0.187±0.026
Table 2: Information routing and compression metrics for MC-MAS. MC-MAS introduces limited
semantic novelty while consistently reducing redundancy and entropy. Negative entropy changes (†)
indicate low-uncertainty regimes where arbitration does not further compress solver disagreement.
Semantic vs. Symbolic Information Routing.
We next examine the relative contribution of semantic and symbolic information routing within MC-MAS across reasoning benchmarks. Table 3
shows that GSM8K shows a balanced reliance on semantic and symbolic signals across both Mistral7B and LLaMA-3.1-8B, indicating that metacognitive arbitration integrates both numerical structure
and contextual reasoning when consolidating solver outputs. In contrast, StrategyQA is overwhelmingly dominated by semantic routing, with negligible symbolic contribution, reflecting the openended and knowledge-driven nature of the task. These results suggest that MC-MAS adapts its
routing behavior to the structure of the underlying problem, prioritizing symbolic consistency when
explicit formal structure is present (GSM8K), and favoring semantic coherence when reasoning is
primarily contextual (StrategyQA). Importantly, MC-MAS does not impose a fixed reasoning bias,
but instead flexibly reallocates information flow based on task demands.
Base Model
Dataset
Semantic (%) Symbolic (%)
Mistral-7B (4-bit)
GSM8K
6.5±0.6
9.6±0.7
Mistral-7B (Full)
GSM8K
11.2±0.8
10.4±0.6
LLaMA-3.1-8B (4-bit) GSM8K
6.5±0.5
6.3±0.6
LLaMA-3.1-8B (4-bit) StrategyQA
69.8±1.4
0.4±0.2
Table 3: Semantic versus symbolic contribution of MC-MAS across reasoning benchmarks. Values
denote the % of routed claims attributed to semantic or symbolic information. GSM8K exhibits a
balanced reliance on semantic and symbolic reasoning, while StrategyQA is dominated by semantic
information routing, with minimal symbolic structure exploited by the models.
Overconfidence Analysis
Finally, we report the number of overconfident errors, defined as incorrect predictions made with high confidence (Table 4). Across all evaluated datasets, MC-MAS
consistently reduces or maintains the number of such errors relative to the strongest individual solver.
The reduction is particularly evident on BoolQ and StrategyQA, suggesting that metacognitive arbitration helps suppress confidently incorrect decisions by consolidating conflicting solver evidence.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Base Model
Dataset
Solver ↓MC-MAS ↓
Mistral-7B (4-bit)
BoolQ
6.2±0.8
5.1±0.6
Mistral-7B (4-bit)
ARC-Easy
8.1±1.0
7.9±0.9
LLaMA-3.1-8B (4-bit) GSM8K
2.3±0.5
2.1±0.4
LLaMA-3.1-8B (4-bit) StrategyQA 15.4±1.3
14.9±1.1
Table 4: Overconfident error counts (lower is better), measured as incorrect predictions made with
high confidence. MC-MAS consistently reduces or maintains overconfidence relative to individual
solvers, indicating improved calibration without sacrificing accuracy.
Variant
Accuracy (%)
Novelty ↑
Entropy ↓
Majority Vote
88.1±0.6
0.0
–
+ Reflections
88.3±0.5
18.1±1.2
–
+ Single Arbiter
86.2±0.7
15.3±1.0
0.051±0.006
Full MC-MAS
90.0±0.4
13.8±0.9
0.015±0.004
Table 5: The contribution of metacognitive components.
Even in cases where accuracy gains are modest, the lower overconfidence counts suggest improved
calibration and decision reliability. These results indicate that MC-MAS enhances robustness not by
inflating confidence, but by selectively filtering uncertain or misleading reasoning signals.
Ablation on the Role of Metacognitive Components.
Table 5 analyzes how individual metacognitive components influence accuracy and uncertainty regulation. Majority voting provides a strong
baseline but, by construction, introduces no semantic novelty and offers no mechanism for uncertainty compression. Adding reflections substantially increases novelty, confirming that critique
stages introduce additional semantic signals; however, these signals remain weakly coupled to final decision-making and therefore do not improve accuracy or entropy. Introducing a single-shot
arbiter enables entropy estimation but results in degraded accuracy and higher uncertainty, indicating that one-sample arbitration is insufficient to reliably resolve solver disagreement. In contrast,
full MC-MAS achieves the highest accuracy while yielding the lowest entropy, demonstrating effective uncertainty compression through multi-sample consensus formation. Notably, novelty decreases
from the reflection-only variant to full MC-MAS, indicating that performance gains arise from structured information consolidation rather than from generating additional reasoning content. Overall,
this ablation confirms that MC-MAS improvements stem from principled information routing and
aggregation across agents, rather than from isolated reflection or increased sampling alone.
Ablation on Arbitration Sample Size.
Table 6 shows that increasing the arbitration sample size
Ka improves MC-MAS accuracy while reducing entropy, indicating more stable consensus formation. Performance gains saturate beyond Ka ≈25, where entropy stabilizes and accuracy improves
marginally, suggesting diminishing returns rather than degraded uncertainty handling. Overconfident errors remain comparable across larger Ka, implying improved confidence estimation rather
than induced overconfidence. Overall, moderate arbitration sizes (Ka ≈25) offer the best trade-off
between uncertainty compression and computational cost.
5.1
DISCUSSION
While earlier work often attributes performance gains to richer reasoning traces or increased sampling diversity, our results point to a more constrained and mechanistic explanation. As shown in
Table 1, MC-MAS yields modest and dataset-dependent accuracy gains, frequently matching rather
than exceeding the strongest individual solver on simpler tasks. In contrast, MC-MAS consistently
improves reliability-related metrics, including reduced answer entropy (Table 2) and fewer overconfident errors (Table 4). These findings suggest that metacognition primarily reorganizes and
consolidates existing solver outputs rather than generating substantial new task-specific knowledge.
A key insight emerges from contrasting novelty-related metrics with downstream decision quality.
Table 2 shows that reflection stages increase semantic novelty across models and datasets. However,
these gains do not translate into improved accuracy or entropy reduction, as shown by the ablation
results in Table 5. While reflection increases intermediate semantic novelty, the full MC-MAS

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Ka #LLM Acc. (%) Entropy ↓OverConf ↓
82.0±0.8 0.062±0.006
86.2±0.7 0.036±0.005
87.1±0.3 0.026±0.005
88.3±0.6 0.049±0.007
Table 6:
Effect of arbiter sample size (Ka) on MC-MAS performance and uncertainty. #LLM
denotes the number of LLM forward calls; multiple arbitration samples may be drawn from a single
invocation when batching is possible.
pipeline preserves such novelty only when it improves decision reliability, resulting in limited net
novelty at the system level.
Entropy and compression analyses further support a routing-based interpretation of metacognition.
As reported in Table 2, MC-MAS generally reduces answer entropy and redundancy, especially on
ARC-Easy with Mistral-7B, indicating effective consolidation of solver disagreement. In several
low-uncertainty regimes, entropy changes are near zero or slightly negative, indicating that the arbiter refrains from unnecessary compression when solvers already agree. This selective behavior
contrasts sharply with majority voting, which lacks an explicit uncertainty regulation mechanism
and can propagate overconfident errors, as evidenced by the higher error counts in Table 4. Importantly, these trends persist under aggressive quantization. Accuracy comparisons in Table 1 show
that 4-bit models maintain performance comparable to their full-precision counterparts. At the same
time, routing, entropy, and calibration metrics in Tables 2 and 4 remain largely unchanged under 4-bit precision. This robustness suggests that metacognitive routing relies more on structural
comparison and aggregation of solver outputs than on high-fidelity generation, making MC-MAS
particularly well suited for resource-constrained deployment scenarios. Overall, our results show
that metacognition in LLM systems primarily functions as a mechanism for filtering, weighting, and
consolidating information rather than generating new reasoning content. These findings align with
the toy information-theoretic view in Appendix A.2, which interprets metacognitive arbitration as
an information bottleneck that compresses solver uncertainty while preserving task-relevant signals.
This perspective shifts the design focus of multi-agent systems away from increasingly elaborate
reasoning traces and toward structured integration of existing solver outputs.
Design Principle: When to Use Metacognitive Routing
MC-MAS is most effective when solver disagreement reflects meaningful epistemic uncertainty
rather than random noise or shared bias. When solver entropy is high and disagreement is structured, metacognitive arbitration compresses uncertainty and improves confidence calibration, as
measured by reduced overconfident errors. When solver entropy is already low or disagreement
is uninformative, arbitration yields limited benefit. This principle motivates adaptive arbitration
strategies conditioned on observed solver uncertainty.
Broader Implications for Existing Agentic Methods.
Although our analysis centers on MCMAS, the routing-based interpretation of metacognition extends naturally to a broad class of existing
agentic and multi-sample reasoning techniques. Methods such as self-consistency (Wan et al., 2025;
Tan et al., 2024; Mitchell et al., 2022), and majority voting (Zhuge et al., 2024; Chen et al., 2024a)
primarily act as implicit entropy reducers by aggregating sampled answers. However, they lack
explicit mechanisms to distinguish structured disagreement from random noise, which can propagate overconfident errors when solver biases are correlated. In contrast, debate-based (Zhang et al.,
2025a; Hu et al., 2025) and reflection-driven (Ge et al., 2025) methods often increase semantic
novelty by introducing critiques or alternative reasoning paths; nevertheless, without a principled
consolidation stage, this novelty does not reliably translate into improved calibration or decision
stability. Therefore, reflection chains may amplify informational diversity without compressing uncertainty. From this perspective, the key distinction across agentic methods is not whether they
generate additional reasoning, but whether they perform effective uncertainty-aware routing—i.e.,
selectively filtering, weighting, and consolidating existing signals into a calibrated consensus. This
lens suggests that many reported “reasoning improvements” in agentic systems may be better understood as varying degrees of entropy compression versus novelty expansion, clarifying when such
methods enhance reliability and when they risk confident failure.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
5.2
FAILURE MODES: WHEN METACOGNITIVE ROUTING FAILS
In this section, we characterize the regimes in which metacognitive routing provides limited or no
gains, and explain why these failures arise from principled constraints rather than implementation
shortcomings.
High-Agreement Regime.
When solver agents already agree on the predicted answer, the empirical solver distribution psolver(y | x) exhibits low entropy. In this regime, there is little uncertainty
to compress, and arbitration cannot substantially improve either accuracy or calibration. Formally,
when Hsolver(x) is already low, the achievable entropy reduction
∆H(x) = Hsolver(x) −Harb(x)
is necessarily small. This behavior is observed empirically on low-ambiguity benchmarks such as
BoolQ, where MC-MAS closely matches the strongest individual solver but does not yield significant gains (Table 1). Importantly, this indicates that MC-MAS does not degrade confident decisions,
but also does not introduce unnecessary intervention when solver agreement is already strong.
Shared Systematic Bias.
Our MC-MAS relies on routing and consolidating information already
present in solver outputs. As a result, when all solvers share the same systematic bias by generating
incorrect answers for the same underlying reason—arbitration cannot correct the error. In such
cases, arbitration reinforces a biased consensus rather than uncovering alternative evidence. This
limitation highlights a fundamental distinction between information routing and error correction:
metacognitive arbitration can reduce disagreement, but it cannot introduce external knowledge or
compensate for correlated solver failures.
Reflection Noise and Unreliable Novelty.
Reflection stages often introduce semantically novel
content, as confirmed by increased novelty scores in reflection-only ablations (Table 5). However,
novelty alone does not guarantee reliability. When critiques surface speculative, misleading, or lowquality signals, arbitration may amplify noise rather than suppress it. This explains why reflectiononly variants increase semantic novelty without improving accuracy or entropy reduction, and why
full MC-MAS selectively retains novelty only when it contributes to reliable consensus formation.
Low-Quality or Miscalibrated Arbiter.
The effectiveness of metacognitive routing depends critically on the calibration of the arbiter itself. A poorly calibrated arbiter may overweight spurious
critiques or fail to distinguish reliable solver evidence, leading to unstable or incorrect consensus
decisions. Our overconfidence analysis (Table 4) shows that MC-MAS improves confidence calibration when arbitration is well-behaved, but this benefit is not guaranteed under arbitrary arbiter
behavior. Thus, metacognition does not eliminate the need for calibrated decision mechanisms—it
merely shifts where calibration matters.
These failure modes reinforce our central claim: MC-MAS functions as an information routing
and compression mechanism rather than a universal reasoning enhancer. Its benefits arise under
meaningful solver disagreement and diminish when such uncertainty is absent.
We also discuss the broader impacts of this work and its limitations in Appendix A.6.
CONCLUSION
This work reframes metacognition in multi-agent LLM systems as a mechanism for information
routing and compression rather than as a source of new reasoning. Through MC-MAS, we demonstrate that separating solution generation from metacognitive arbitration enables reliable consolidation of solver outputs, leading to reduced uncertainty and improved calibration across diverse
reasoning tasks. In summary, our findings suggest that the primary value of metacognition lies in
structuring and filtering existing information, rather than expanding reasoning traces, offering a principled direction for designing robust multi-agent inference systems. Future work will explore adaptive arbitration strategies, scalability to larger agent ensembles, and extensions to longer-horizon and
more complex reasoning tasks.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
REFERENCES
Lingjiao Chen, Jared Davis, Boris Hanin, Peter Bailis, Ion Stoica, Matei Zaharia, and James Zou.
Are more llm calls all you need? towards the scaling properties of compound ai systems. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:45767–45790, 2024a.
Lingjiao Chen, Jared Quincy Davis, Boris Hanin, Peter Bailis, Ion Stoica, Matei Zaharia, and James
Zou. Are more llm calls all you need? towards scaling laws of compound inference systems.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.02419, 2024b.
Jishnu Ray Chowdhury, Jayanth Mohan, Tomas Malik, and Cornelia Caragea. Zero-shot keyphrase
generation: Investigating specialized instructions and multi-sample aggregation on large language
models. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: NAACL 2025, pp. 7867–
7884, 2025.
Christopher Clark, Kenton Lee, Ming-Wei Chang, Tom Kwiatkowski, Michael Collins, and Kristina
Toutanova. Boolq: Exploring the surprising difficulty of natural yes/no questions. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1905.10044, 2019.
Peter Clark, Isaac Cowhey, Oren Etzioni, Tushar Khot, Ashish Sabharwal, Carissa Schoenick, and
Oyvind Tafjord. Think you have solved question answering? try arc, the ai2 reasoning challenge.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.05457, 2018.
Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Mohammad Bavarian, Mark Chen, Heewoo Jun, Lukasz Kaiser,
Matthias Plappert, Jerry Tworek, Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro Nakano, et al. Training verifiers to
solve math word problems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.14168, 2021.
Longchao Da, Xiaoou Liu, Jiaxin Dai, Lu Cheng, Yaqing Wang, and Hua Wei.
Understanding the uncertainty of llm explanations: A perspective based on reasoning topology.
ArXiv,
abs/2502.17026, 2025.
Fulan Fan, Siyu Wang, Mai Dinuer, Mai Hemuti, Xin Nie, and Laurence T Yang. Enhancing students’ metacognition with innovative ia-based metacognitive reflective learning tool. IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies, 2025.
Sebastian Farquhar, Jannik Kossen, Lorenz Kuhn, and Yarin Gal. Detecting hallucinations in large
language models using semantic entropy. Nature, 630(8017):625–630, 2024.
Yingqiang Ge, Wenyue Hua, Kai Mei, Juntao Tan, Shuyuan Xu, Zelong Li, Yongfeng Zhang, et al.
Openagi: When llm meets domain experts. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
36:5539–5568, 2023.
Yubin Ge, Salvatore Romeo, Jason Cai, Monica Sunkara, and Yi Zhang. Samule: Self-learning
agents enhanced by multi-level reflection. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing, pp. 16602–16621, 2025.
Mor Geva, Daniel Khashabi, Elad Segal, Tushar Khot, Dan Roth, and Jonathan Berant. Did aristotle
use a laptop? a question answering benchmark with implicit reasoning strategies. Transactions of
the Association for Computational Linguistics, 9:346–361, 2021.
Chuan Guo, Geoff Pleiss, Yu Sun, and Kilian Q Weinberger.
On calibration of modern neural
networks. In International conference on machine learning, pp. 1321–1330. PMLR, 2017.
Zhe Hu, Hou Pong Chan, Jing Li, and Yu Yin. Debate-to-write: A persona-driven multi-agent
framework for diverse argument generation. In Proceedings of the 31st International Conference
on Computational Linguistics, pp. 4689–4703, 2025.
Dongzhi Jiang, Renrui Zhang, Ziyu Guo, Yanwei Li, Yu Qi, Xinyan Chen, Liuhui Wang, Jianhan
Jin, Claire Guo, Shen Yan, et al. Mme-cot: Benchmarking chain-of-thought in large multimodal
models for reasoning quality, robustness, and efficiency. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.09621, 2025.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Mingyu Jin, Weidi Luo, Sitao Cheng, Xinyi Wang, Wenyue Hua, Ruixiang Tang, William Yang
Wang, and Yongfeng Zhang. Disentangling memory and reasoning ability in large language models. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 1681–1701. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2025. doi:
10.18653/v1/2025.acl-long.84.
Philippe Laban, Wojciech Kry´sci´nski, Divyansh Agarwal, Alexander Richard Fabbri, Caiming
Xiong, Shafiq Joty, and Chien-Sheng Wu. Summedits: Measuring llm ability at factual reasoning
through the lens of summarization. In Proceedings of the 2023 conference on empirical methods
in natural language processing, pp. 9662–9676, 2023.
Tian Lan, Wenwei Zhang, Chengqi Lyu, Shuaibin Li, Chen Xu, Heyan Huang, Dahua Lin, XianLing Mao, and Kai Chen. Training language models to critique with multi-agent feedback. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2410.15287, 2024.
Houda Louatouate and Mohammed Zeriouh.
Role-based prompting technique in generative aiassisted learning: A student-centered quasi-experimental study. Journal of Computer Science
and Technology Studies, 7(2):130–145, 2025.
Nikita Mehandru, Brenda Y Miao, Eduardo Rodriguez Almaraz, Madhumita Sushil, Atul J Butte,
and Ahmed Alaa. Evaluating large language models as agents in the clinic. NPJ digital medicine,
7(1):84, 2024.
Eric Mitchell, Joseph Noh, Siyan Li, Will Armstrong, Ananth Agarwal, Patrick Liu, Chelsea Finn,
and Christopher D Manning. Enhancing self-consistency and performance of pre-trained language
models through natural language inference. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing, pp. 1754–1768, 2022.
Taisei Ozaki, Chihiro Nakagawa, Naoya Inoue, Shoichi Naito, and Kenshi Yamaguchi. Llm debate
opponent: Counter-argument generation focusing on implicit and critical premises. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference of the Nations of the Americas Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 4: Student Research Workshop),
pp. 456–465, 2025.
Cheng Qian, Emre Can Acikgoz, Hongru Wang, Xiusi Chen, Avirup Sil, Dilek Hakkani-Tur, Gokhan
Tur, and Heng Ji. Smart: Self-aware agent for tool overuse mitigation. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2025, pp. 4604–4621, 2025.
Yuxiao Qu, Tianjun Zhang, Naman Garg, and Aviral Kumar. Recursive introspection: Teaching llm
agents how to self-improve. In ICML 2024 Workshop on Structured Probabilistic Inference {\&}
Generative Modeling, 2024.
Peiyang Song, Pengrui Han, and Noah Goodman. A survey on large language model reasoning
failures. In 2nd AI for Math Workshop@ ICML 2025, 2025.
Cheng Tan, Jingxuan Wei, Zhangyang Gao, Linzhuang Sun, Siyuan Li, Ruifeng Guo, Bihui Yu, and
Stan Z Li. Boosting the power of small multimodal reasoning models to match larger models with
self-consistency training. In European Conference on Computer Vision, pp. 305–322. Springer,
2024.
Gladys Tyen, Hassan Mansoor, Victor C˘arbune, Yuanzhu Peter Chen, and Tony Mak. Llms cannot
find reasoning errors, but can correct them given the error location. In Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024, pp. 13894–13908, 2024.
Guangya Wan, Yuqi Wu, Jie Chen, and Sheng Li. Reasoning aware self-consistency: Leveraging
reasoning paths for efficient llm sampling. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference of the Nations
of the Americas Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 3613–3635, 2025.
Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc Le, Ed Chi, Sharan Narang, Aakanksha Chowdhery, and Denny Zhou. Self-consistency improves chain of thought reasoning in language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.11171, 2022.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Zhenhailong Wang, Haiyang Xu, Junyang Wang, Xi Zhang, Ming Yan, Ji Zhang, Fei Huang, and
Heng Ji.
Mobile-agent-e: Self-evolving mobile assistant for complex tasks.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2501.11733, 2025a.
Zhihu Wang, Shiwan Zhao, Yu Wang, Heyuan Huang, Sitao Xie, Yubo Zhang, Jiaxin Shi, Zhixing
Wang, Hongyan Li, and Junchi Yan. Re-task: Revisiting llm tasks from capability, skill, and
knowledge perspectives.
In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL
2025, pp. 4925–4936, 2025b.
Zizhen Wang, Jiangyu Pan, Duola Jin, Jingao Zhang, Jiacheng Cao, Chao Zhang, Zejian Li, Preben
Hansen, Yijun Zhao, Shouqian Sun, et al. Charactercritique: Supporting children’s development
of critical thinking through multi-agent interaction in story reading. In Proceedings of the 2025
CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 1–21, 2025c.
Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny
Zhou, et al. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. Advances in
neural information processing systems, 35:24824–24837, 2022.
Joshua C Yang, Damian Dailisan, Marcin Korecki, Carina I Hausladen, and Dirk Helbing. Llm
voting: Human choices and ai collective decision-making. In Proceedings of the AAAI/ACM
Conference on AI, Ethics, and Society, volume 7, pp. 1696–1708, 2024.
Tingting Yang, Ping Feng, Qixin Guo, Jindi Zhang, Jiahong Ning, Xinghan Wang, and Zhongyang
Mao. Autohma-llm: Efficient task coordination and execution in heterogeneous multi-agent systems using hybrid large language models. IEEE Transactions on Cognitive Communications and
Networking, 2025.
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik R Narasimhan, and Yuan
Cao. React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In The eleventh international
conference on learning representations, 2022.
Peiying Yu, Guoxin Chen, and Jingjing Wang. Table-critic: A multi-agent framework for collaborative criticism and refinement in table reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.11799, 2025.
Quan Yuan, Mehran Kazemi, Xin Xu, Isaac Noble, Vaiva Imbrasaite, and Deepak Ramachandran.
Tasklama: probing the complex task understanding of language models. In Proceedings of the
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 38, pp. 19468–19476, 2024.
Kaiyuan Zhang, Qian Liu, Luyang Zhang, Chaoqun Zheng, Shuaimin Li, Bing Xu, Muyun Yang,
Xinxiao Qiao, and Wenpeng Lu. Madawsd: Multi-agent debate framework for adversarial word
sense disambiguation. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, pp. 22294–22313, 2025a.
Yang Zhang, Shixin Yang, Chenjia Bai, Fei Wu, Xiu Li, Zhen Wang, and Xuelong Li. Towards
efficient llm grounding for embodied multi-agent collaboration. In Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2025, pp. 1663–1699, 2025b.
Yao Zhang, Zijian Ma, Yunpu Ma, Zhen Han, Yu Wu, and Volker Tresp. Webpilot: A versatile and
autonomous multi-agent system for web task execution with strategic exploration. In Proceedings
of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 39, pp. 23378–23386, 2025c.
Denny Zhou, Nathanael Sch¨arli, Le Hou, Jason Wei, Nathan Scales, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Claire Cui, Olivier Bousquet, Quoc Le, et al. Least-to-most prompting enables complex
reasoning in large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.10625, 2022.
Mingchen Zhuge, Changsheng Zhao, Dylan Ashley, Wenyi Wang, Dmitrii Khizbullin, Yunyang
Xiong, Zechun Liu, Ernie Chang, Raghuraman Krishnamoorthi, Yuandong Tian, et al. Agent-asa-judge: Evaluate agents with agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.10934, 2024.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
A
APPENDIX
A.1
PROMPT TEMPLATES AND PSEUDOCODE
This section documents all prompt templates used in MC-MAS. Prompts are task-specific,
instruction-only, and fixed across all experimental runs. No external tools, retrieval mechanisms,
or auxiliary supervision are employed beyond the task input. All outputs are constrained to explicit
answer formats to enable deterministic extraction and reliable uncertainty analysis.
A.1.1
SOLVER, REFLECTION, AND ARBITRATION PROMPTS
All evaluations are conducted in a zero-shot, instruction-only setting: no in-context exemplars are
provided. The arbiter and critics only condition on the current instance (input) and the solvers’
intermediate outputs for that same instance.
MC-MAS Prompt Templates
Solver Prompt – BoolQ (Yes/No Reading Comprehension)
Read the passage carefully and answer the question.
Passage and Question:
[Passage text]
[Question]
Evaluate the evidence carefully, then conclude with:
Final Answer: true OR Final Answer: false
Solver Prompt – ARC-Easy (Multiple-Choice Science QA)
Answer the following science question by selecting the best option.
Question:
[Question text]
Choices:
• A. [Option A]
• B. [Option B]
• C. [Option C]
• D. [Option D]
Analyze each option carefully, then conclude with:
Final Answer: A, B, C, or D
Reflection (Critique) Prompt
Review the proposed solution critically. Identify any reasoning errors, missing evidence, or
alternative interpretations.
Question:
[Question text]
Proposed Solution:
[Solver reasoning output]
Provide a concise critique describing the strengths and weaknesses of the reasoning.
Metacognitive Arbitration Prompt – BoolQ
Two solver agents produced different answers, each accompanied by a critique.
Question:
[Question text]
Solution 1:
[Solver 1 output]
Answer 1: [true/false]
Review 1: [Critique 1]
Solution 2:
[Solver 2 output]

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Answer 2: [true/false]
Review 2: [Critique 2]
Based on the solutions and reviews, re-evaluate carefully and conclude with:
Final Answer: true OR Final Answer: false
Metacognitive Arbitration Prompt – ARC-Easy
Two solver agents produced different answers, each accompanied by a critique.
Question:
[Question text]
Solution 1:
[Solver 1 output]
Answer 1: [A/B/C/D]
Review 1: [Critique 1]
Solution 2:
[Solver 2 output]
Answer 2: [A/B/C/D]
Review 2: [Critique 2]
Based on the solutions and reviews, re-analyze carefully and conclude with:
Final Answer: A, B, C, or D
Metacognitive Arbitration Prompt – GSM8K
Two solver agents produced different numerical solutions, each accompanied by a critique.
Question:
[Question text]
Solution 1:
[Solver 1 output]
Answer 1: [number]
Review 1: [Critique 1]
Solution 2:
[Solver 2 output]
Answer 2: [number]
Review 2: [Critique 2]
Recompute the solution independently. Do not rely blindly on prior answers. Then output
exactly one line:
Final Answer: < numericalvalue >
Metacognitive Arbitration Prompt – StrategyQA
Two solver agents produced different answers, each accompanied by a critique.
Question:
[Question text]
Solution 1:
[Solver 1 output]
Answer 1: [yes/no]
Review 1: [Critique 1]
Solution 2:
[Solver 2 output]
Answer 2: [yes/no]
Review 2: [Critique 2]
Re-evaluate carefully, then output exactly one word:
Final Answer: yes OR Final Answer: no
MC-MAS Pseudocode.
The MC-MAS inference process begins by sampling multiple reasoning
trajectories from two independent solver agents using the same base model fθ. Each solver produces
a set of candidate answers, inducing an empirical solver distribution psolver(y | x) that captures initial
uncertainty and disagreement (see Algorithm 1). A representative solver trace ˜si is then selected for
each solver and used to generate reflective critiques ri, which expose potential errors and supporting
evidence without directly determining the final answer. In the arbitration stage, multiple arbitration
responses are sampled conditioned on the input, representative solver traces, and critiques, yielding

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Algorithm 1 MC-MAS with Information Routing and Uncertainty Compression
Require: Input x, base LLM fθ, dataset D
1: Number of solver samples Ks, solver temperature Ts
2: Number of arbitration samples Ka, arbitration temperature Ta
3: Initialize solver answer multiset As ←∅
4: Initialize arbitration answer multiset Aa ←∅
5: Stage 1: Independent Solver Generation
6: for i = 1 to 2 do
7:
for k = 1 to Ks do
8:
Sample solver reasoning trace s(k)
i
∼pθ(· | x)
9:
Extract solver answer a(k)
i
←EXTRACTANSWER(s(k)
i
)
10:
if a(k)
i
is valid then
11:
As ←As ∪{a(k)
i
}
12:
end if
13:
end for
14:
Select representative solver trace ˜si ←s(1)
i
15: end for
16: Compute solver-induced distribution psolver(y | x) from As
17: Compute solver entropy Hsolver(x)
18: Stage 2: Reflection and Critique
19: for i = 1 to 2 do
20:
Sample reflection ri ∼pθ(· | x, ˜si)
21:
Extract critique claims Cref
i
←EXTRACTCLAIMS(ri)
22: end for
23: Stage 3: Metacognitive Arbitration
24: for m = 1 to Ka do
25:
Sample arbitration response
a(m) ∼pθ(· | x, ˜s1, ˜s2, r1, r2)
26:
if a(m) is valid then
27:
Aa ←Aa ∪{a(m)}
28:
end if
29: end for
30: Compute arbitration-induced distribution parb(y | x) from Aa
31: Compute arbitration entropy Harb(x)
32: Final prediction ˆyMC-MAS ←arg maxy parb(y | x)
33: Information Routing Metrics
34: Extract solver claims C1, C2 ←EXTRACTCLAIMS(˜s1), EXTRACTCLAIMS(˜s2)
35: Extract arbitration claims Cfinal ←EXTRACTCLAIMS(Aa)
36: Compute novelty
N ←|Cfinal \ (C1 ∪C2)|
|Cfinal|
37: Compute redundancy
R ←AVGSEMANTICOVERLAP(C1, C2, Cref
1 , Cref
2 , Cfinal)
38: return ˆyMC-MAS, {N, R, Hsolver(x), Harb(x)}
an arbitration-induced distribution parb(y | x). The final prediction ˆyMC-MAS is obtained by majority
vote over arbitration samples. Throughout this process, uncertainty is quantified via entropy before
and after arbitration, and information routing behavior is characterized using semantic novelty and
redundancy metrics computed from solver, reflection, and arbitration claims. This approach operationalizes metacognitive arbitration as a mechanism for selectively consolidating existing solver
information rather than generating new reasoning content.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
A.2
A TOY INFORMATION-THEORETIC VIEW OF METACOGNITIVE ROUTING
We provide a minimal theoretical interpretation of MC-MAS to clarify why metacognitive arbitration improves decision reliability without necessarily increasing semantic novelty or task accuracy.
Our goal is not to offer a full formal analysis, but to ground the observed empirical behavior in an
information-theoretic perspective that is consistent with our methodology and measurements.
Solvers as High-Entropy Information Sources.
Let x denote an input instance and let y ∈Y
denote the task label. Due to stochastic decoding, independent solvers induce an empirical solver
distribution psolver(y | x), as defined in Section 3. When solvers disagree, this distribution exhibits
high entropy,
Hsolver(x) = −
X
y∈Y
psolver(y | x) log psolver(y | x),
(14)
reflecting epistemic uncertainty arising from inconsistent solver outputs rather than a lack of underlying model knowledge. Majority voting aggregates solver predictions directly and reduces variance
only implicitly, without an explicit mechanism to regulate or analyze this uncertainty.
Metacognitive Arbitration as an Information Bottleneck.
Let S = {a(k)
i
| i ∈{1, 2}, k =
1, . . . , Ks} denote the multiset of solver outputs produced across agents and samples. MC-MAS
introduces a metacognitive arbitration stage that integrates solver outputs and reflective critiques
before producing a final decision. From an information bottleneck perspective, arbitration can be
viewed as constructing an intermediate representation Z (corresponding to the arbiter’s internal
decision state) that selectively consolidates solver information while suppressing redundancy and
conflict. Conceptually, this process trades off compression of solver signals against preservation of
task-relevant information,
min
Z
I(Z; S)
s.t.
I(Z; y) ≥β,
(15)
where S denotes solver outputs and β controls task fidelity. Importantly, this formulation is interpretive rather than prescriptive and explains why arbitration can reduce entropy and redundancy
without introducing substantial new semantic content.
Consensus Formation as Entropy Compression.
Through multi-sample arbitration, MC-MAS
induces an arbitration distribution parb(y | x) and corresponding entropy
Harb(x) = −
X
y∈Y
parb(y | x) log parb(y | x).
(16)
Empirically, we consistently observe
Harb(x) < Hsolver(x),
(17)
indicating effective uncertainty compression through arbitration. Notably, this entropy reduction
often occurs even when task accuracy changes little, suggesting improved calibration and reliability
rather than stronger reasoning capability. Reflection-only stages tend to increase semantic novelty
but do not enforce this compression constraint, which explains their limited impact on reliability.
Implications.
This toy information-theoretic view predicts three behaviors that align with our empirical findings: (i) semantic novelty may decrease after arbitration due to consolidation of solver
information, (ii) entropy reduction is the primary benefit of metacognition, and (iii) multi-sample
arbitration is necessary to reliably approximate a low-entropy consensus state. Together, these observations support the interpretation of MC-MAS as an information routing and compression mechanism rather than a generator of new reasoning content.
A.3
DATASETS AND TASKS
We test MC-MAS on four diverse reasoning benchmarks that span different forms of linguistic and
cognitive reasoning: BoolQ, ARC-Easy, StrategyQA, and GSM8K. These datasets are commonly
used to evaluate reasoning robustness, uncertainty, and calibration in LLMs, making them suitable
for studying metacognitive arbitration behavior.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
1. BoolQ.
BoolQ is a binary (yes/no) question answering dataset constructed from naturally occurring user queries paired with short passages from Wikipedia. Each question requires determining
whether the passage entails the queried statement. BoolQ mainly tests reading comprehension and
local logical reasoning with limited compositional depth. Due to its relatively low ambiguity, it acts
as a useful setting for analyzing calibration and overconfidence behavior when solver agreement is
high.
2. ARC-Easy.
ARC-Easy is a subset of the AI2 Reasoning Challenge focused on elementary-level
science questions. Questions are multiple-choice and often require combining factual knowledge
with simple reasoning or elimination strategies. Compared to BoolQ, ARC-Easy exhibits higher
ambiguity and solver disagreement, making it well-suited for analyzing entropy reduction and consensus formation under metacognitive arbitration.
3. StrategyQA.
StrategyQA is a challenging yes/no question answering benchmark designed to
require implicit multi-hop reasoning and background knowledge. Questions are intentionally constructed such that surface-level pattern matching is insufficient, and correct answers depend on combining multiple facts or commonsense assumptions. This dataset underscores the importance of semantic reasoning over explicit symbolic structure and provides a setting in which reflection often
introduces novel but unreliable intermediate content.
4. GSM8K.
GSM8K consists of grade-school-level math word problems that require multi-step
numerical reasoning. Answers are numerical and typically require explicit symbolic manipulation,
arithmetic operations, and intermediate calculations. Unlike the other benchmarks, GSM8K strongly
emphasizes symbolic reasoning structure, allowing us to analyze how metacognitive arbitration interacts with solver disagreement in settings where reasoning traces are more explicit.
Task Characteristics: Across these datasets, we cover a range of task properties, including binary
versus multi-class outputs, semantic versus symbolic reasoning demands, and low- versus highuncertainty regimes. This variety allows us to examine whether metacognitive arbitration consistently improves decision reliability across different reasoning styles, rather than being tailored to a
specific task format or dataset.
A.4
SCALING BEHAVIOR OF METACOGNITIVE ROUTING.
Our results in Table 6 show that the benefits of metacognitive routing exhibit a clear saturation
effect with respect to test-time compute. As the arbitration sample size Ka increases, both accuracy
and entropy reduction improve initially but plateau beyond moderate values (Ka ≈25), indicating
diminishing returns from additional arbitration. This behavior is consistent across benchmarks and
persists under aggressive quantization, suggesting that metacognitive routing depends primarily on
structured aggregation of solver outputs rather than increased model capacity.
From a formal perspective, this saturation can be understood by examining the entropy reduction
∆H(Ka; x) = Hsolver(x) −H(Ka)
arb
(x),
where H(Ka)
arb
(x) represents the arbitration-induced entropy obtained using Ka arbitration samples.
As Ka increases, the empirical arbitration distribution parb(y | x) converges toward a stable consensus, causing ∆H(Ka; x) to increase initially but approach a finite limit. Beyond this regime,
additional arbitration primarily reduces sampling variance rather than altering the underlying decision distribution, yielding diminishing marginal gains in both entropy reduction and accuracy.
These observations indicate that metacognitive routing exhibits diminishing returns with additional
test-time compute, reinforcing its interpretation as an uncertainty compression mechanism rather
than a source of unbounded performance gains.
A.5
TEST-TIME COMPLEXITY ANALYSIS
We explore the test-time computational complexity of MC-MAS in terms of LLM forward passes
and arbitration sampling. Since MC-MAS operates purely at inference time without parameter updates or external supervision, its cost is dominated by the number of model invocations required to
generate solver, reflection, and arbitration outputs.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
LLM Invocation Count.
For each input instance x, MC-MAS performs:
• 2Ks solver forward passes, corresponding to Ks stochastic samples from each of two independent solver agents;
• 2 reflection forward passes, one per solver, conditioned on representative solver traces; and
• Ka arbitration forward passes, conditioned on the input, solver traces, and reflective critiques.
The total number of LLM forward passes per instance is therefore
CostMC-MAS = 2Ks + 2 + Ka.
(18)
Asymptotic Inference Cost.
Let CLLM denote the cost of a single LLM forward pass for a fixed
input length. The overall inference cost of MC-MAS scales linearly as
O((2Ks + Ka) · CLLM) ,
(19)
with constant overhead from reflection stages. This linear scaling contrasts with approaches that
increase model size or context length, and highlights that MC-MAS trades additional test-time sampling for improved uncertainty regulation.
Saturation and Cost–Benefit Boundary.
Empirically, our arbitration ablation (Table 6) shows
that both accuracy and entropy reduction improve with increasing Ka only up to moderate values,
after which gains saturate. Formally, the marginal benefit of additional arbitration satisfies
∂E[∆H(x)]
∂Ka
→0
as
Ka →∞,
(20)
while computational cost continues to grow linearly. This defines a practical cost–benefit boundary,
beyond which additional arbitration yields diminishing returns without commensurate reliability
improvements.
Practical Considerations.
In practice, multiple arbitration samples can be efficiently batched
within a single LLM invocation when supported by the inference framework, partially amortizing the cost of large Ka. Moreover, since MC-MAS relies on structured aggregation rather than
high-fidelity generation, its routing behavior remains effective under aggressive quantization, as
demonstrated in our 4-bit experiments. These properties make MC-MAS suitable for deployment
in resource-constrained or latency-sensitive settings, provided that arbitration is applied selectively
when solver uncertainty is high.
A.6
LIMITATIONS AND BROADER IMPACT
Limitations.
Beyond the principled failure regimes discussed in Section 5.2, this study has several practical and empirical limitations. First, MC-MAS is evaluated on a small set of reasoning
benchmarks and medium-scale instruction-tuned models, and the observed routing behavior may
not directly generalize to larger frontier models or tasks requiring long-horizon planning. Second,
the metacognitive arbiter introduces additional inference cost due to repeated arbitration, which may
limit practicality in latency-sensitive settings. Additionally, MC-MAS relies on the quality and calibration of the metacognitive arbiter itself; failures or biases in the arbiter may propagate or amplify
errors rather than mitigate them. Finally, while we show that metacognition improves confidence
calibration—as measured by reduced overconfident errors—we do not claim that MC-MAS universally improves accuracy, nor that it replaces task-specific reasoning enhancements. Future work
should explore adaptive arbitration strategies, lower-cost routing mechanisms, and extensions to
more complex multi-agent and long-context settings.
Broader Impact.
This work contributes to the development of more reliable and trustworthy agentic AI systems by clarifying the functional role of metacognition in multi-agent language models.
By showing that metacognitive arbitration primarily enhances confidence calibration and reduces
overconfident errors—rather than generating new reasoning content—our findings support safer deployment of agents in open and uncertain environments where incorrect high-confidence decisions

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
can be costly. The routing-based perspective facilitates system designs that selectively intervene
based on uncertainty, potentially reducing unnecessary computation and mitigating failure modes
associated with correlated agent biases. Besides this, our work underscores the importance of understanding when metacognitive mechanisms provide limited benefit, helping practitioners avoid
unnecessary computational overhead or false assurances of reliability. Lastly, while our framework
is evaluated in controlled benchmark settings, the principles uncovered here are broadly applicable
to real-world agentic systems that must balance accuracy, reliability, and efficiency under resource
constraints.