Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
TSR:
TRAJECTORY-SEARCH
ROLLOUTS
FOR
MULTI-TURN RL OF LLM AGENTS
Anonymous authors
Paper under double-blind review
ABSTRACT
Advances in large language models (LLMs) are driving a shift toward using reinforcement learning (RL) to train agents from iterative, multi-turn interactions across
tasks. However, multi-turn RL remains challenging as rewards are often sparse
or delayed, and environments can be stochastic. In this regime, naive trajectory
sampling can hinder exploitation and induce mode collapse. We propose TSR
(Trajectory-Search Rollouts), a training-time approach that repurposes test-time
scaling ideas for improved per-turn rollout generation. TSR performs lightweight
tree-style search to construct high-quality trajectories by selecting high-scoring
actions at each turn using task-specific feedback. This improves rollout quality and
stabilizes learning while leaving the underlying optimization objective unchanged,
making TSR optimizer-agnostic. We instantiate TSR with best-of-N, beam, and
shallow lookahead search, and pair it with PPO and GRPO, achieving up to 15%
performance gains and more stable learning on Sokoban, FrozenLake, and WebShop tasks at a one-time increase in training compute. By moving search from
inference time to the rollout stage of training, TSR provides a simple and general mechanism for stronger multi-turn agent learning, complementary to existing
frameworks and rejection-sampling-style selection methods.
INTRODUCTION
Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly trained as interactive agents via reinforcement
learning (RL), where the model acts over multiple turns in an environment and learns from feedback
obtained through interaction rather than from static corpora (Nakano et al., 2022; Zhou et al., 2024;
2025). Recent works have taken strides in developing diverse practical frameworks for multi-turn RL
training of LLM agents (Wang et al., 2025; Luo et al., 2025; Xi et al., 2025a; Cao et al., 2025; Cui
et al., 2025; Zhu et al., 2025b). Across these systems, the training loop typically alternates between
(i) generating rollouts for a batch of prompts, i.e., trajectories of agent–environment interactions, and
(ii) updating the policy via policy-gradient methods (e.g., PPO (Schulman et al., 2017) and GRPO
(Shao et al., 2024)), using trajectory-level returns or per-turn rewards obtained from the environment.
Despite these advances, multi-turn RL remains brittle: per-turn rewards can be sparse or delayed,
environments may be stochastic, and interaction horizons are often long. Under these conditions,
naive rollout sampling, i.e., independently sampling full-length trajectories from the current policy,
can leave advantage estimates at the mercy of low-quality or unlucky rollouts. This can amplify
variance, slow exploration, and precipitate mode collapse known as Echo Trap (Wang et al., 2025),
where model performance abruptly declines during training due to spikes in gradients. Several works
have tried addressing the brittleness in RL, e.g., via turn-level credit assignment (Wei et al., 2025) and
rejection-sampling-style rollouts such as GFPO (Shrivastava et al., 2025), RAFT (Dong et al., 2023),
and StarPO (Wang et al., 2025). However, balancing exploration and exploitation, particularly in
multi-turn environments, remains challenging. We provide an overview of related works in App. A.
In this work, we ask the following fundamental question: If multi-turn RL is allowed a fixed but
non-trivial amount of additional compute at the trajectory rollout stage, how much can we improve
the performance and stability of training? Our answer is to move trajectory search from inference to
training. Here, we draw inspiration from test-time scaling methods for reasoning (Snell et al., 2024),
which have shown that spending additional compute budget to train-time search during RL can reliably

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
improve solution quality at inference time. Specifically, we ask whether a similar compute-for-quality
trade-off is applicable to multi-turn RL by upgrading the per-turn rollout generator itself.
We introduce TSR (Trajectory-Search Rollouts), a train-time framework that repurposes test-time
search ideas to construct higher-quality trajectories. For each prompt, TSR runs a lightweight
tree-style search over action sequences using available task feedback such as per-turn rewards or other
metrics, and then selects the highest-scoring trajectory (or a subset) to compute advantages. TSR
optimizes the trajectory per-turn and thus avoids running into unlucky rollouts due to indiscriminate
full-length trajectory sampling. As a result, TSR changes only how rollouts are generated, making it
optimizer-agnostic and directly compatible with other existing frameworks.
In our experiments, we instantiate TSR with best-of-N, beam, and lookahead search methods, treating
the corresponding search budgets (e.g., N, beam width, lookahead depth) as train-time compute
knobs. We evaluate TSR for Qwen2.5-0.5B and Qwen2.5-3B models (Qwen et al., 2025) across three
representative environments: Sokoban (Weber et al., 2018), a deterministic logic puzzle, FrozenLake
(Brockman et al., 2016), a popular stochastic RL game, and WebShop (Yao et al., 2023a), a longhorizon, agentic web navigation benchmark. Under a fixed, one-time increase in train-time compute,
TSR yields up to 15% absolute performance gains and significantly smoother training dynamics.
In summary, our main contributions are:
• Trajectory Search Framework. We introduce TSR, an effective rollout-generation framework for
multi-turn RL that uses tree-style search techniques inspired from test-time scaling to construct
higher-quality trajectories by optimizing rollouts at the per-turn level.
• Optimizer-Agnostic and Modular Design. TSR changes only how rollouts are generated, making
it compatible with standard policy-gradient methods (e.g., PPO, GRPO).
• Empirical Validation. We demonstrate that TSR improves performance on deterministic, stochastic, and long-horizon tasks, enabling smaller models to surpass the performance of larger models.
BACKGROUND AND PROBLEM SETUP
2.1
MULTI-TURN RL AS A PARTIALLY OBSERVABLE MARKOV DECISION PROCESS (POMDP)
Our focus is on agentic tasks, specifically multi-turn interactive decision-making, such as games,
embodied navigation, or web-based interactions. Similar to (Xi et al., 2025a; Luo et al., 2025; Zhou
et al., 2024), we model such multi-turn decision-making problems as a Partially Observable Markov
Decision Process (POMDP) defined by the tuple M = ⟨U, S, A, O, P, R⟩, where U denotes the task
space, S the state space, A the action space, and O the observation space. P : S × A →S represents
the state transition function and R : U × S × A →R the reward function.
Given a task u ∈U, the LLM with policy πθ parameterized by θ generates a first action a0 ∼
πθ(· | u) and its state is transitioned according to s1 ∼P(· | s0, a0). A corresponding scalar
reward r0 = R(u, s0, a0) is provided to evaluate the quality of the action, and the agent receives
an observation o0 ∈O from the environment. At each time step t, given the history τ<t =
(a0, o0, r0, . . . , at−1, ot−1, rt−1), the agent generates the next action via at ∼πθ(· | u, τ<t). This
process continues for a maximum turn-length (horizon) K, resulting in the trajectory
τ = (a0, o0, r0, . . . , aK, oK, rK)
(1)
with corresponding cumulative reward R(τ) = PK
t=0 rt.
2.2
POLICY OPTIMIZATION FOR MULTI-TURN RL
Policy gradient methods (Sutton et al., 1999) aim to maximize the expected cumulative reward, defined
as the objective function J(θ) = Eτ∼πθ [R(τ)], by performing gradient ascent in the direction of
increasing expected return, i.e., θnew = θ + η∇θJ(θ), where η denotes the learning rate. In the
multi-turn setting, the corresponding policy gradient is given by
∇θJ(θ) = Eτ∼πθ
"K−1
X
t=0
∇θ log πθ(at | τ<t) ˆAt
#
,
(2)

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Avoiding the “Corner Trap” in Sokoban
Task: Agent (A) must push box (B) into target (T). A “Pillar” blocks the path, requiring
the agent to push the box downward first and
then to the right to avoid a deadlock.
A) Current State
Pillar
×T
B
A
“Bad Push”
B) Deadlock State
Pillar
×T
B
A
STUCK
1. Naive Rollout. Agent prioritizes the immediate “valid” action: Push Right.
• Mistake: Box is pushed against the wall.
• Deadlock: To push the box down to (×),
the agent must stand on the cell above the
box. However, that cell is occupied.
• Outcome: Box is frozen and the agent
circles aimlessly until the episode ends.
2. Best-of-4 Rollout. Agent checks N = 4
different possibilities (up, down, right, left).
• Exploration: Some rollouts begin with
Push Right and reach the same deadlock,
while others first reposition the agent.
• Selection: Only rollouts that preserve access above the box can complete the task.
• Outcome: Best-of-4 selects a feasible trajectory and avoids the irreversible trap.
Figure 1: “Corner Trap”. Naive rollout sees
Push Right as progress, but traps the box in a
deadlock unlike Best-of-N that avoids it.
where ˆAt is an advantage estimate, measuring how
much better action at is compared to the policy’s
average behavior.
In general, directly computing policy gradients is
challenging because the gradient estimator typically suffers from high variance. To mitigate
this, modern policy optimization methods, such
as PPO (Schulman et al., 2017) and GRPO (Shao
et al., 2024), constrain the update step size and
employ variance-reduction baselines for more reliable credit assignment. We provide details on
how PPO and GRPO estimate advantages for the
multi-turn setting in App. B.
In this work, we do not alter these algorithms but
instead modify the rollout generation. Rather than
sampling purely from the current policy πθ, we
optimize rollouts on a per-turn level using treesearch methods to improve the quality of the data
used to estimate ˆAt.
2.3
WHY ROLLOUT
QUALITY AND DIVERSITY DRIVE STABILITY
The effectiveness and stability of multi-turn RL
depend critically on the properties of the rollout
distribution, which directly controls the signalto-noise ratio of advantage estimates, and which
regions of the state-action space receive a learning
signal (Schulman et al., 2015; 2017; Mroueh et al.,
2025). In agentic environments, however, naive
stochastic rollouts often suffer from several issues:
1. Sparse or Delayed Rewards. Per-turn rewards
can be sparse, binary, or even delayed until the
end of the episode. For example, consider a
web agent that must purchase a specific item.
Success requires a precise sequence of logical
actions: search for item, click on item page, click on right color, click on buy. If the agent executes
the first three steps perfectly but fails to click “Buy Now” at the final step, the reward at the
trajectory level is often zero. This makes advantage estimation challenging as Monte Carlo returns
can have high variance and bootstrapped estimators depend on value predictions that are hard to
learn when intermediate rewards are uninformative (Schulman et al., 2015; 2017).
2. Irreversible Traps. In many multi-turn environments, early mistakes can create irreversible states
in which the episode becomes unsalvageable, collapsing learning. This motivates further search
and heuristics to avoid such doomed prefixes (Ignatenko & Pravosud, 2023). To illustrate this,
Fig. 1 shows how a single early mistake in Sokoban can render an episode unsalvageable, whereas
simple rollout selection recovers a feasible trajectory.
3. Insufficient Diversity. On-policy methods can become unstable if the collected rollouts lack
diversity. For example, if the agent repeatedly samples the same successful trajectory for a given
state, the relative advantage becomes zero ( ˆAt ≈0), effectively stalling gradient updates. This
lack of exploration leads to brittle policies that overfit to specific actions or shortcut behaviors
rather than learning robust, generalizable heuristics. Thus, effective training requires a rollout
distribution that balances exploitation (finding high rewards) with sufficient exploration (covering
diverse logic paths) to prevent the policy from getting stuck in local optima.
Taken together, these issues suggest that beyond the choice of optimization algorithm (e.g.,
PPO/GRPO), the quality of rollouts is a central factor in multi-turn RL. Motivated by the example

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
in Fig. 1, we study whether allocating a modest, one-time increase in training-time compute during
trajectory search can address these issues. Specifically, we formulate the following hypothesis:
Hypothesis: Per-Turn Rollout Optimization
In sparse-reward, multi-turn POMDPs, replacing naive stochastic sampling with per-turn
trajectory optimization yields a rollout distribution with higher effective learning signal and
improved stability, without modifying the policy optimization.
We test this hypothesis by augmenting rollout generation via lightweight tree search guided by
task feedback or proxy scores. This repurposes test-time search ideas for train-time data collection,
analogous in spirit to recent process-reward-guided tree search methods for collecting higher-quality
reasoning traces (Yao et al., 2023b; Zhang et al., 2024).
OPTIMIZING ROLLOUTS WITH TRAJECTORY SEARCH
In this section, we formalize rollout generation as a trajectory search problem and introduce TSR.
3.1
TRAJECTORY ROLLOUTS VIA TREE SEARCH
We consider multi-turn rollout generation as a sequential decision making process that induces a
search tree over possible action sequences (see Fig. 2). Starting from an initial state s0, each node
in the tree corresponds to a partial trajectory prefix τ<t, and edges correspond to candidate actions
sampled from the current policy.
Candidate Action Set.
At each turn t, instead of sampling a single action from the corresponding
policy πθ(· | τ<t), we sample a candidate action set At = {a(1)
t , . . . , a(M)
t
} , a(j)
t
∼πθ(· | τ<t),
where M controls the per-turn branching factor. This corresponds to expanding a node in the tree.
Scoring Function.
We evaluate the desirability of taking action at at prefix τ<t with outcome ot
from the environment using a scoring function S(τ<t, at, ot) ∈R. In general, S(·) is task-dependent
and may simply correspond to the turn-level reward. However, it may also incorporate heuristic
signals, learned value estimates, or proxy feedback if immediate rewards are unavailable. This
abstraction allows our framework to support: (1) reward-based scoring in deterministic settings (e.g.,
logic puzzles such as Sokoban), (2) heuristic or risk-aware scoring in stochastic environments (e.g.,
FrozenLake), and (3) progress-based or semantic scoring in delayed-reward settings (e.g., WebShop).
Trajectory Search Rollouts (TSR).
Given the candidate action set and scoring function, rollout
generation proceeds by selecting actions according to a search strategy Fϕ parameterized by search
parameters ϕ. Formally, we define:
TSR : (πθ, u, S, K, Fϕ) −→{τ1, . . . , τM} ,
(3)
where u ∈U denotes a task instance with initial state s0, and Fϕ selects and composes actions by
optimizing trajectory prefixes under the scoring function S over a finite horizon K. Here, the number
of trajectories L generated by TSR is a hyper-parameter, which we omit from the input parameters
for notational simplicity. By repeatedly expanding candidate actions and selecting according to S(·),
rollout generation corresponds to traversing a truncated tree. The collected trajectories are then used
in each policy optimization step. Crucially, TSR modifies only the rollout generation process, i.e.,
the policy objective and update rules remain unchanged.
3.2
SEARCH STRATEGIES
We instantiate TSR with best-of-N, beam, and shallow lookahead search. While these are popular
test-time scaling techniques traditionally applied at inference time to improve a single output, here
we adapt them to training-time rollout generation for multi-turn RL. Fig. 5 in App. C provides an
overview of these three search methods.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
LLM Agent
𝑢
𝑎0
𝑖
𝑜0
𝑖
𝑟𝑡−1
𝑖
𝑎𝑡
𝑖
𝑜𝑡
𝑖
𝑟0
𝑖
𝑟𝑡
𝑖
GRPO
PPO
Update 
policy
Trajectories{𝜏1, … , 𝜏𝐿}
𝑢
𝑎0
𝑖,1 𝑜0
𝑖,1 𝑟0
𝑖,1
𝑢
𝑎0
𝑖
𝑜0
𝑖
𝑟0
𝑖
𝑎𝐾
𝑖
𝑜𝐾
𝑖
𝑟𝐾
𝑖
Naive 
Rollout
𝑎0
𝑖,2 𝑜0
𝑖,2 𝑟0
𝑖,2
𝑎1
𝑖,1 𝑜1
𝑖,1 𝑟1
𝑖,1
𝑎1
𝑖,2 𝑜1
𝑖,2 𝑟1
𝑖,2
𝑎2
𝑖,2 𝑜2
𝑖,2 𝑟2
𝑖,2
𝑎2
𝑖,3 𝑜2
𝑖,3 𝑟2
𝑖,3
𝑎0
𝑖,3 𝑜0
𝑖,3 𝑟0
𝑖,3
𝑎1
𝑖,3 𝑜1
𝑖,3 𝑟1
𝑖,3
𝑎2
𝑖,1 𝑜2
𝑖,1 𝑟2
𝑖,1
𝑅(𝜏𝑖)
𝑅(𝜏𝑖)
𝐴𝑖
Advantage 
Estimation
𝑅(𝜏𝑖)
𝑅(𝜏𝑖)
𝑅(𝜏𝑖)
Policy 
Update
Trajectorylevel Reward
Trajectory Search Rollout (TSR)
…
…
Figure 2: (Left) Multi-turn RL with naive rollouts: trajectories are sampled independently without
any search. (Right) Trajectory Search Rollouts (TSR): lightweight tree-style search to construct
high-quality trajectories by selecting high-scoring actions at each turn.
Trajectory-Level Best-of-N.
For a given initial state, we independently sample a set of N complete
trajectories {τ (1), . . . , τ (N)} from the base policy πθ, where each trajectory is typically scored using
its cumulative reward R(τ). Rollout generation then retains only the best trajectory:
τ ∗= arg
max
τ∈{τ (1),...,τ (N)} R(τ) .
(4)
However, because selection occurs only after full trajectories are generated, it does not influence
intermediate action choices and may still generate suboptimal prefixes. We therefore view trajectorylevel best-of-N as a naive baseline of search with depth K and branching only at the root.
Per-Turn Beam Search.
At each turn t, we sample a candidate action set At and score each
candidate action at (along with its outcome ot) using S(τ<t, at, ot). Instead of committing to a single
action, beam search maintains a set of B active partial trajectories (beams), retaining the top-ranked
prefixes after each expansion. Formally, if Bt denotes the set of active beams at turn t, then
Bt+1 = TopB
n
(τ<t◦at)
 τ<t ∈Bt, at ∈At
o
,
(5)
where ◦denotes trajectory concatenation and ranking is performed using accumulated or per-step
scores. After K turns, the highest-scoring trajectory is selected for training. Per-turn beam search
actively steers rollout generation toward promising regions of the trajectory space and enables
recovery from locally suboptimal actions.
Shallow Lookahead Search.
Similar to beam search, shallow lookahead evaluates candidate
actions at each turn but additionally includes a short horizon of future steps (depth D ≪K) before
selection. This corresponds to evaluating a truncated subtree rooted at τ<t and choosing actions
based on predicted downstream outcomes. Lookahead may improve quality relative to greedy scoring,
while incurring less computational overhead than maintaining a full beam.
3.3
INSTANCE FILTERING FOR ENHANCED TASK DIVERSITY
While TSR improves the quality of trajectories (exploitation), it does not by itself guarantee sufficient
task-level diversity (exploration). An established mechanism to promote such diversity is instancelevel filtering (Wang et al., 2025), which hierarchically samples distinct task realizations before
generating corresponding rollouts.
Specifically, at each training iteration, instance filtering first samples P task instances (or groups),
where each group corresponds to a different initial state (e.g., different Sokoban layouts, WebShop
tasks, or problem statements). Within each group u with initial state s0, the agent generates L corresponding rollout trajectories {τ (1), . . . , τ (L)} ∼πθ(· | u) , resulting in a total of P × L trajectories
per iteration. For each group, instance filtering then defines an outcome uncertainty under the current
policy πθ as the standard deviation of resulting trajectory returns:
U(u; πθ) = Stdτ∼πθ(·|u)

R(τ)

.
(6)
During training, groups are ranked according to U(u; πθ), and only the top-p% most uncertain
groups are retained for policy updates, while low-variance groups are discarded. The motivation
for group-based instance filtering stems from active learning (Settles, 2011) where groups with low
reward variance tend to be uninformative: trajectories either solve trivial problems (uniformly high
reward) or consistently fail (uniformly low reward), providing little learning signal.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Algorithm 1 TSR with Instance-Level Filtering
1: Input: Policy πθ, Task distribution D, Sample Size
P, Group Size N, Filter Ratio p, Search Strategy
Fϕ, Turn Horizon K, Score Function S.
2: Output: Optimized Policy πθ∗
3: for each training step do
4:
Sample P task groups {u1, . . . , uP } ∼D.
5:
for each group ui do
6:
// Generate L trajectories using TSR:
Gi ←TSR(πθ, ui, S, K, Fϕ).
7:
// Compute outcome uncertainty:
Ui = Std({R(τ) | τ ∈Gi}).
8:
end for
9:
Rank groups by Ui and select top-p% subset
Xtop.
10:
Update πθ via PPO/GRPO using Xtop.
11: end for
Empirically, (Wang et al., 2025) show
that uncertainty-based filtering can prevent
mode collapse by maintaining a diverse
training set. We therefore combine TSR
with uncertainty-based instance filtering to
jointly optimize rollout quality and diversity. Alg. 1 summarizes the joint operation.
Since TSR is modular, it can be combined
with other mechanisms that encourage exploration (e.g., ScalingInter-RL (Xi et al.,
2025a)) or hierarchical RL methods (e.g.,
(Luo et al., 2025)). A systematic study of
integrating TSR with complementary methods is an interesting future work.
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
To ensure reproducibility, we base our experiments on RAGEN (Wang et al., 2025), a popular
framework for training and evaluating LLM agents in RL settings.
4.1
ENVIRONMENTS AND TASKS
We choose three diverse multi-turn environments from the RAGEN framework, selected to test agent
performance under varying degrees of reasoning complexity:
1. Sokoban (Weber et al., 2018). A logic puzzle in which the agent must push boxes into target
locations. Feedback is deterministic and immediate, allowing to score per-turn rollouts via
environment rewards.
2. FrozenLake (Brockman et al., 2016). A stochastic navigation task where the agent must
cross a frozen lake to reach a goal while avoiding obstacles (holes in the ice). The iced
surface is slippery such that the same action can stochastically lead to different next states.
Rewards are extremely sparse, with a positive signal provided only upon reaching the goal.
3. WebShop (Yao et al., 2023a). A deterministic e-commerce scenario in which the agent must
navigate a website to purchase an item. Rewards are delayed as success is only signaled
upon successful purchase, resulting in a long-horizon credit assignment problem.
To address sparse or delayed reward feedback in FrozenLake and WebShop, we employ task-specific
proxy scores to guide rollout generation. Details and examples are provided in App. D.
4.2
TRAINING AND BASELINES
For our main experiments, we train Qwen2.5-0.5B and Qwen2.5-3B instruct models (Qwen et al.,
2025) on Sokoban and FrozenLake, and only the larger Qwen2.5-3B model on WebShop due to
the higher reasoning complexity required for this task. We use PPO for Sokoban and GRPO for
FrozenLake and WebShop, as GRPO has been shown to provide more stable learning for these tasks
(Wang et al., 2025). Following (Yu et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025), we remove the KL term during
optimization and apply asymmetric clipping (via clip-higher). For each batch, we sample P = 16
task groups (prompts) and L = 16 rollouts per group, with a maximum turn horizon of K = 5. Our
baseline is instance-level filtering with naive rollout sampling using a filtering ratio of p = 0.25,
similar to the default RAGEN implementation. When instantiating TSR with best-of-N, we sample
N = 28 trajectories and retain the top L = 16. For beam search, we use a branching factor of M = 4
and beam width B = 2. For lookahead search, we use the same B and M with depth D = 2. We
selected these parameters after performing ablations on N, M, B, and D (see App. F).
Note that after trajectory search rollout and filtering, all methods yield the same number of trajectories
per group, ensuring a fair comparison. We provide additional details on our training setup in App. E.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Training Steps
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Success Rate
Sokoban (Qwen2.5-0.5B)
Instance Filtering
TSR (Best-of-N)
TSR (Lookahead)
TSR (Beam Search)
(a) Sokoban (Qwen2.5-0.5B)
Training Steps
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Success Rate
Sokoban (Qwen2.5-3B)
Instance Filtering
TSR (Best-of-N)
TSR (Lookahead)
TSR (Beam Search)
(b) Sokoban (Qwen2.5-3B)
Training Steps
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Success Rate
WebShop (Qwen2.5-3B)
Instance Filtering
TSR (Best-of-N)
TSR (Lookahead)
TSR (Beam Search)
(c) WebShop (Qwen2.5-3B)
Training Steps
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Success Rate
Frozen Lake (Qwen2.5-0.5B)
Instance Filtering
TSR (Best-of-N)
TSR (Lookahead)
TSR (Beam Search)
(d) FrozenLake (Qwen2.5-0.5B)
Training Steps
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Success Rate
Frozen Lake (Qwen2.5-3B)
Instance Filtering
TSR (Best-of-N)
TSR (Lookahead)
TSR (Beam Search)
(e) FrozenLake (Qwen2.5-3B)
Figure 3: Success Rate Plots. Comparison of TSR variants (Best-of-N, Lookahead, Beam Search)
against the Instance Filtering baseline. Shaded regions show standard deviation across 3 runs.
Table 1: Results (Sokoban & FrozenLake). We report Success Rate (↑), Average Response Length
in tokens (↓), and Average Interaction Turns (↓) on the held-out validation set. Bold indicates the
best performance within each environment and model size.
Task
Method
Qwen2.5-0.5B
Qwen2.5-3B
S.R. (↑) Resp. Len (↓) Turns (↓)
S.R. (↑) Resp. Len (↓) Turns (↓)
Sokoban
Base Model
8.9
4.7
16.0
4.6
Instance Filtering
29.0
4.4
43.7
4.1
TSR (Best-of-N)
33.3
4.3
47.7
4.0
TSR (Lookahead)
36.1
4.0
49.5
3.8
TSR (Beam Search)
38.3
3.8
52.3
3.6
FrozenLake
Base Model
6.4
4.6
12.7
3.9
Instance Filtering
19.7
4.1
48.7
3.6
TSR (Best-of-N)
25.0
4.2
55.0
3.5
TSR (Lookahead)
27.8
3.8
57.0
3.3
TSR (Beam Search)
30.0
3.5
60.7
3.1
4.3
EVALUATION AND METRICS
Across all three tasks, we report success rate as final task accuracy, evaluated on a held-out validation
set of 256 fixed prompts per environment. For inference, we use temperature T = 0.5 and truncate
episodes after 5 turns, consistent with the maximum turn horizon K. Besides success rate (an
indicator for task completion), we report rollout entropy (an indicator for diversity (exploration),
and average reward distribution for exploitation. Training stability is analyzed via gradient norm
statistics, where sudden spikes indicate potential mode collapse. We additionally report average
response length (reasoning verbosity) and the average number of interaction turns (token efficiency
and task-completion latency). Further details on evaluations are given in App. E.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
We present key results and statistics assessing final task performance, training stability, and scaling
behavior. We refer to App. F for supplementary ablations and results.
5.1
TSR PERFORMANCE COMPARISON AND SUCCESS RATES
We present success rate across training steps for all agent tasks in Fig. 3 and summarize overall task
performance (final success rate) in Table 1 for Sokoban and FrozenLake, and in Table 2 for WebShop.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Table 2: Results (WebShop, Qwen2.5-3B). Success
Rate (↑), Average Response Length (↓), and Average Interaction Turns (↓) on the held-out validation set. Bold
indicates the best results.
Method
Qwen2.5-3B
S.R. (↑)
Resp. Len (↓)
Turns (↓)
Base Model
3.0
7.7
Instance Filtering
70.3
6.8
TSR (Best-of-N)
77.3
6.5
TSR (Lookahead)
82.3
6.1
TSR (Beam Search)
85.3
5.8
Across all tasks and models, TSR methods consistently outperform the instancefiltering baseline, which only promotes
task-level diversity but does not optimize
rollouts at the per-turn level. For the 3B
model, TSR (Beam Search) achieves a success rate of 52.3% on Sokoban and 60.7%
on FrozenLake, improvements of 8.4%
and 12.0% over instance filtering. Similarly, TSR (Lookahead) and TSR (Bestof-N) achieve improvements ranging from
4–12%.
The largest gains are on WebShop, where best-of-N, lookahead, and
beam search achieve performance improvements of 7.0%, 12.3%, and 15.0%, respectively, demonstrating that TSR yields strong benefits in long-horizon settings.
Among TSR variants, beam search consistently achieves the strongest performance and converges
faster (see Fig. 3), followed by lookahead and best-of-N. Overall, we have three takeaways. First,
beam search maintains multiple partial trajectories, enabling recovery from early irreversible mistakes
and providing robustness to proxy-scoring noise and environment stochasticity, particularly in
FrozenLake and WebShop. Second, lookahead commits to a single action based on proxy signals of
future outcomes. While effective in deterministic settings like Sokoban, its gains are constrained by
proxy quality and diminish as search depth increases. Third, best-of-N improves training by selecting
higher-quality completed trajectories, i.e., selection occurs only after full rollouts are generated. As
a result, it acts as an oversampled variant of instance filtering, increasing the chance of “luckier”
rollouts without actively steering intermediate decisions.
5.2
EXPLOITATION, EXPLORATION, AND TRAINING STABILITY
We analyze exploitation, exploration, and training stability using diagnostic statistics, shown exemplarily in Fig. 4 for the Sokoban task with the Qwen2.5-3B model.
For exploitation, we analyze average training rewards in Fig. 4a. Across all TSR variants, average
rewards increase steadily over training, indicating effective learning and policy improvement. We
see trends consistent with overall task performance: beam search has on average higher rewards,
followed by lookahead and best-of-N. This indicates that TSR shifts the exploitation bias toward
higher rewards, resulting in higher performance.
For exploration, we analyze rollout entropy in Fig. 4b, which measures the uncertainty of the model’s
token predictions. Across all methods, entropy decays smoothly over training, indicating that the
agent is sufficiently exploring different strategies with uncertain outcomes in the beginning before
converging to a more concentrated, exploitative behavior with a specific reasoning path. Importantly,
TSR variants exhibit a similar entropy decay profile to the instance filtering baseline, suggesting that
trajectory search rollout does not alter or destabilize exploration–exploitation dynamics.
We analyze gradient norms in Fig. 4c as a measure of stability. Sharp spikes in gradient norms are
indicative of the “Echo Trap” and can lead to irreversible instability and mode collapse (Wang et al.,
2025; Xi et al., 2025a). Across all methods, gradient norms remain without spikes.
5.3
INFERENCE EFFICIENCY
In addition to final success rates, Tables 1 and 2 report average response length and interaction turns
to assess whether increased training-time compute can improve solution quality, token efficiency, and
latency at inference time. Across environments, TSR consistently reduces both metrics, indicating
improved decision-making at test time. In particular, beam search produces the shortest responses and
fewest turns on average, with lookahead achieving comparable reductions. Overall, this suggests that
train-time trajectory search not only improves task success but also yields more concise interactions
at deployment time. We substantiate these results with qualitative examples for WebShop in App. F.1.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Training Steps
Mean Training Reward
Sokoban (Qwen2.5-3B)
Instance Filtering
TSR (Best-of-N)
TSR (Lookahead)
TSR (Beam Search)
(a) Average Reward (Exploitation)
Training Steps
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
Rollout Entropy
Sokoban (Qwen2.5-3B)
Instance Filtering
TSR (Best-of-N)
TSR (Lookahead)
TSR (Beam Search)
(b) Rollout Entropy (Exploration)
Training Steps
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
2.2
Gradient Norm (ℓ2)
Sokoban (Qwen2.5-3B)
Instance Filtering
TSR (Best-of-N)
TSR (Lookahead)
TSR (Beam Search)
(c) Gradient Norm (Stability)
Figure 4: Exploitation, Exploration, and Stability Metrics for Sokoban (Qwen2.5-3B). (a) TSR
achieves higher average rewards, indicating improved exploitation from higher-quality rollouts. (b)
Rollout entropy decreases smoothly over training, suggesting sustained exploration, followed by
policy consolidation. (c) Gradient norms remain stable and free of large spikes across TSR.
Table 3:
Comparison to Larger Models.
Qwen2.5-0.5B trained via TSR outperforms
GPT-4o and Qwen2.5-72B models.
Model / Method
Sokoban
FrozenLake
GPT-4o (zero-shot)
27.73
26.56
Qwen2.5-72B (zero-shot)
19.53
23.83
Qwen2.5-0.5B (Instance Filtering)
29.00
19.70
Qwen2.5-0.5B (TSR Best-of-N)
33.30
25.00
Qwen2.5-0.5B (TSR Lookahead)
36.10
27.80
Qwen2.5-0.5B (TSR Beam Search)
38.30
30.00
Table 4: Scaling Effects (Sokoban, Qwen2.53B). Performance gains saturate as search budgets increase. B = 2 offers the best trade-off.
Method
Search Budget
Succes Rate
∆
TSR
(Beam Search)
M = 2, B = 1
50.6
–
M = 2, B = 2
52.3
+1.7
M = 6, B = 2
53.4
+1.1
5.4
COMPARISON TO LARGER MODELS
We benchmark our TSR-trained Qwen2.5-0.5B agents against GPT-4o (Hurst et al., 2024) and
Qwen2.5-72B (Qwen et al., 2025) for Sokoban and FrozenLake in Table 3. Despite being orders
of magnitude smaller, TSR (Beam Search) outperforms GPT-4o by 10.6% on Sokoban and 3.4%
on FrozenLake. This suggests that multi-turn RL with TSR can yield performance that surpasses
significantly larger, state-of-the-art models.
5.5
SCALING SEARCH BUDGET VS. PERFORMANCE
We further study how increasing training-time search budgets affects final performance. As shown
in Table 4, we observe diminishing marginal returns. For beam search, the largest improvement
(+1.7%) comes from increasing the beam width from B = 1 to B = 2, enabling the agent to escape
local optima. Further increasing the number of action samples from M = 2 to M = 6 yields only
modest gains (+1.1%). We observe similar behavior for other TSR variants. We provide more
detailed scaling experiments for beam search in App. F.2.
CONCLUSION
In this work, we introduced Trajectory-Search Rollouts (TSR), a framework that repurposes inferencetime search algorithms, such as beam search, lookahead, and best-of-N, to enhance the training
data quality of policy gradient methods in multi-turn agentic RL. By actively exploring and pruning
trajectories on a per-turn-level during the rollout phase, TSR overcomes the exploration challenges
inherent in sparse- or delayed-reward environments and substantially increases final task accuracy,
while effectively preventing mode collapse. Our methodology is simple, general, and optimizeragnostic, and can thus be paired with any policy gradient method in principle. Empirically, we
demonstrate that a 0.5B model trained with TSR not only significantly outperforms strong RL
baselines but also surpasses larger generalist models on three representative tasks and environments.
Our findings thus confirm that allocating additional compute at the trajectory rollout stage improves
performance and stability in multi-turn RL training.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
REFERENCES
Hazim Alzorgan and Abolfazl Razi. Monte Carlo Beam Search for Actor-Critic Reinforcement
Learning in Continuous Control, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.09029.
Greg Brockman, Vicki Cheung, Ludwig Pettersson, Jonas Schneider, John Schulman, Jie Tang, and
Wojciech Zaremba. OpenAI Gym, 2016. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.01540.
Shiyi Cao, Dacheng Li, Fangzhou Zhao, Shuo Yuan, Sumanth R. Hegde, Connor Chen, Charlie
Ruan, Tyler Griggs, Shu Liu, Eric Tang, Richard Liaw, Philipp Moritz, Matei Zaharia, Joseph E.
Gonzalez, and Ion Stoica. SkyRL-Agent: Efficient RL Training for Multi-turn LLM Agent, 2025.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.16108.
Ganqu Cui, Lifan Yuan, Zefan Wang, Hanbin Wang, Yuchen Zhang, Jiacheng Chen, Wendi Li,
Bingxiang He, Yuchen Fan, Tianyu Yu, Qixin Xu, Weize Chen, Jiarui Yuan, Huayu Chen, Kaiyan
Zhang, Xingtai Lv, Shuo Wang, Yuan Yao, Xu Han, Hao Peng, Yu Cheng, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong
Sun, Bowen Zhou, and Ning Ding. Process Reinforcement through Implicit Rewards, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.01456.
Hanze Dong, Wei Xiong, Deepanshu Goyal, Yihan Zhang, Winnie Chow, Rui Pan, Shizhe Diao,
Jipeng Zhang, Kashun Shum, and Tong Zhang. RAFT: Reward rAnked FineTuning for Generative
Foundation Model Alignment, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.06767.
Lin Gui, Cristina Gˆarbacea, and Victor Veitch. BoNBoN Alignment for Large Language Models
and the Sweetness of Best-of-n Sampling, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.
00832.
Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P Goucher, Adam Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark, AJ Ostrow, Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford, et al. GPT-4o System Card. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.21276, 2024.
Oleksii Ignatenko and Ruslan Pravosud. Solving Sokoban Game with a Heuristic for Avoiding DeadEnd States. In ICTERI, 2023. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-48325-7_4.
Randy Lefebvre and Audrey Durand. On Shallow Planning under Partial Observability, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.15820.
Xufang Luo, Yuge Zhang, Zhiyuan He, Zilong Wang, Siyun Zhao, Dongsheng Li, Luna K. Qiu, and
Yuqing Yang. Agent Lightning: Train ANY AI Agents with Reinforcement Learning, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.03680.
Youssef Mroueh, Nicolas Dupuis, Brian Belgodere, Apoorva Nitsure, Mattia Rigotti, Kristjan Greenewald, Jiri Navratil, Jerret Ross, and Jesus Rios. Revisiting Group Relative Policy Optimization:
Insights into On-Policy and Off-Policy Training. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.22257, 2025.
Reiichiro Nakano, Jacob Hilton, Suchir Balaji, Jeff Wu, Long Ouyang, Christina Kim, Christopher
Hesse, Shantanu Jain, Vineet Kosaraju, William Saunders, Xu Jiang, Karl Cobbe, Tyna Eloundou,
Gretchen Krueger, Kevin Button, Matthew Knight, Benjamin Chess, and John Schulman. WebGPT:
Browser-Assisted Question-Answering with Human Feedback, 2022. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2112.09332.
Long Ouyang, Jeff Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll L. Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong
Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, John Schulman, Jacob Hilton, Fraser Kelton,
Luke Miller, Maddie Simens, Amanda Askell, Peter Welinder, Paul Christiano, Jan Leike, and
Ryan Lowe. Training Language Models to Follow Instructions with Human Feedback, 2022. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.02155.
Qwen, :, An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chengyuan
Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang,
Jianxin Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kai Dang, Keming Lu, Keqin Bao, Kexin
Yang, Le Yu, Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Pei Zhang, Qin Zhu, Rui Men, Runji Lin, Tianhao Li, Tianyi
Tang, Tingyu Xia, Xingzhang Ren, Xuancheng Ren, Yang Fan, Yang Su, Yichang Zhang, Yu Wan,
Yuqiong Liu, Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, and Zihan Qiu. Qwen2.5 Technical Report, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15115.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
John Schulman, Philipp Moritz, Sergey Levine, Michael I. Jordan, and Pieter Abbeel.
HighDimensional Continuous Control Using Generalized Advantage Estimation.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1506.02438, 2015.
John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. Proximal Policy
Optimization Algorithms, 2017. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.06347.
John Schulman, Philipp Moritz, Sergey Levine, Michael Jordan, and Pieter Abbeel. High-Dimensional
Continuous Control Using Generalized Advantage Estimation, 2018. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/1506.02438.
Burr Settles. From Theories to Queries: Active Learning in Practice. In Active Learning and
Experimental Design Workshop in Conjunction with AISTATS 2010, pp. 1–18. JMLR Workshop
and Conference Proceedings, 2011.
Zhihong Shao, Peiyi Wang, Qihao Zhu, Runxin Xu, Junxiao Song, Xiao Bi, Haowei Zhang,
Mingchuan Zhang, Y. K. Li, Y. Wu, and Daya Guo. DeepSeekMath: Pushing the Limits of
Mathematical Reasoning in Open Language Models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2402.03300.
Junhong Shen, Hao Bai, Lunjun Zhang, Yifei Zhou, Amrith Setlur, Shengbang Tong, Diego Caples,
Nan Jiang, Tong Zhang, Ameet Talwalkar, and Aviral Kumar. Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that
Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.
07976.
Vaishnavi Shrivastava, Ahmed Awadallah, Vidhisha Balachandran, Shivam Garg, Harkirat Behl, and
Dimitris Papailiopoulos. Sample More to Think Less: Group Filtered Policy Optimization for
Concise Reasoning, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.09726.
Charlie Snell, Jaehoon Lee, Kelvin Xu, and Aviral Kumar. Scaling LLM Test-Time Compute
Optimally can be More Effective than Scaling Model Parameters, 2024. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2408.03314.
Richard S Sutton, David McAllester, Satinder Singh, and Yishay Mansour. Policy Gradient Methods
for Reinforcement Learning with Function Approximation. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 12, 1999.
Huaijie Wang, Shibo Hao, Hanze Dong, Shenao Zhang, Yilin Bao, Ziran Yang, and Yi Wu. Offline
Reinforcement Learning for LLM Multi-Step Reasoning, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2412.16145.
Zihan Wang, Kangrui Wang, Qineng Wang, Pingyue Zhang, Linjie Li, Zhengyuan Yang, Xing
Jin, Kefan Yu, Minh Nhat Nguyen, Licheng Liu, Eli Gottlieb, Yiping Lu, Kyunghyun Cho,
Jiajun Wu, Li Fei-Fei, Lijuan Wang, Yejin Choi, and Manling Li. RAGEN: Understanding
Self-Evolution in LLM Agents via Multi-Turn Reinforcement Learning, 2025. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2504.20073.
Th´eophane Weber, S´ebastien Racani`ere, David P. Reichert, Lars Buesing, Arthur Guez,
Danilo Jimenez Rezende, Adria Puigdom`enech Badia, Oriol Vinyals, Nicolas Heess, Yujia Li,
Razvan Pascanu, Peter Battaglia, Demis Hassabis, David Silver, and Daan Wierstra. ImaginationAugmented Agents for Deep Reinforcement Learning, 2018. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/1707.06203.
Quan Wei, Siliang Zeng, Chenliang Li, William Brown, Oana Frunza, Wei Deng, Anderson Schneider,
Yuriy Nevmyvaka, Yang Katie Zhao, Alfredo Garcia, and Mingyi Hong. Reinforcing Multi-Turn
Reasoning in LLM Agents via Turn-Level Reward Design, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2505.11821.
Zhiheng Xi, Yiwen Ding, Wenxiang Chen, Boyang Hong, Honglin Guo, Junzhe Wang, Dingwen
Yang, Chenyang Liao, Xin Guo, Wei He, Songyang Gao, Lu Chen, Rui Zheng, Yicheng Zou,
Tao Gui, Qi Zhang, Xipeng Qiu, Xuanjing Huang, Zuxuan Wu, and Yu-Gang Jiang. AgentGym:
Evolving Large Language Model-based Agents across Diverse Environments, 2024. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2406.04151.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Zhiheng Xi, Jixuan Huang, Chenyang Liao, Baodai Huang, Honglin Guo, Jiaqi Liu, Rui Zheng, Junjie
Ye, Jiazheng Zhang, Wenxiang Chen, Wei He, Yiwen Ding, Guanyu Li, Zehui Chen, Zhengyin
Du, Xuesong Yao, Yufei Xu, Jiecao Chen, Tao Gui, Zuxuan Wu, Qi Zhang, Xuanjing Huang,
and Yu-Gang Jiang. AgentGym-RL: Training LLM Agents for Long-Horizon Decision Making
through Multi-Turn Reinforcement Learning, 2025a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.
08755.
Zhiheng Xi, Chenyang Liao, Guanyu Li, Yajie Yang, Wenxiang Chen, Zhihao Zhang, Binghai Wang,
Senjie Jin, Yuhao Zhou, Jian Guan, Wei Wu, Tao Ji, Tao Gui, Qi Zhang, and Xuanjing Huang.
AgentPRM: Process Reward Models for LLM Agents via Step-Wise Promise and Progress, 2025b.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.08325.
Shunyu Yao, Howard Chen, John Yang, and Karthik Narasimhan. WebShop: Towards Scalable
Real-World Web Interaction with Grounded Language Agents, 2023a. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2207.01206.
Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran, Thomas L. Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik
Narasimhan. Tree of Thoughts: Deliberate Problem Solving with Large Language Models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2305.10601, 2023b.
Qiying Yu, Zheng Zhang, Ruofei Zhu, Yufeng Yuan, Xiaochen Zuo, Yu Yue, Weinan Dai, Tiantian
Fan, Gaohong Liu, Lingjun Liu, Xin Liu, Haibin Lin, Zhiqi Lin, Bole Ma, Guangming Sheng,
Yuxuan Tong, Chi Zhang, Mofan Zhang, Wang Zhang, Hang Zhu, Jinhua Zhu, Jiaze Chen, Jiangjie
Chen, Chengyi Wang, Hongli Yu, Yuxuan Song, Xiangpeng Wei, Hao Zhou, Jingjing Liu, WeiYing Ma, Ya-Qin Zhang, Lin Yan, Mu Qiao, Yonghui Wu, and Mingxuan Wang. DAPO: An
Open-Source LLM Reinforcement Learning System at Scale, 2025. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2503.14476.
Dan Zhang, Sining Zhoubian, Ziniu Hu, Yisong Yue, Yuxiao Dong, and Jie Tang. ReST-MCTS*:
LLM Self-Training via Process Reward Guided Tree Search. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.03816,
2024.
Yifei Zhou, Andrea Zanette, Jiayi Pan, Sergey Levine, and Aviral Kumar. ArCHer: Training
Language Model Agents via Hierarchical Multi-Turn RL, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2402.19446.
Yifei Zhou, Song Jiang, Yuandong Tian, Jason Weston, Sergey Levine, Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, and
Xian Li. SWEET-RL: Training Multi-Turn LLM Agents on Collaborative Reasoning Tasks, 2025.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.15478.
King Zhu, Hanhao Li, Siwei Wu, Tianshun Xing, Dehua Ma, Xiangru Tang, Minghao Liu, Jian Yang,
Jiaheng Liu, Yuchen Eleanor Jiang, Changwang Zhang, Chenghua Lin, Jun Wang, Ge Zhang,
and Wangchunshu Zhou. Scaling Test-time Compute for LLM Agents, 2025a. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2506.12928.
Zilin Zhu, Chengxing Xie, Xin Lv, and slime Contributors. slime: An LLM post-training framework for RL Scaling. https://github.com/THUDM/slime, 2025b. GitHub repository.
Corresponding author: Xin Lv.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
A
RELATED WORKS
We present a short overview of relevant related works.
Multi-Turn Agent RL Frameworks.
There are many practical frameworks to train multi-turn RL
agents in diverse environments. For example, Agent Lightning (Luo et al., 2025) and AgentGym-RL
(Xi et al., 2025a) provides decoupled training systems and modular pipelines, building on AgentGym
(Xi et al., 2024) which only primarily focuses on environment diversity and data collection. SkyRL
(Cao et al., 2025) offers a full-stack library for tool-use agents, utilizing asynchronous weight updates
to maximize troughput. Similarly, slime (Zhu et al., 2025b) decouples training from rollouts by
connecting Megatron with SGLang, specifically targeting high-performance scaling for multi-turn
RL. RAGEN/StarPO (Wang et al., 2025) provides a trajectory-level RL formulation and documents
instability patterns; StarPO-S (Wang et al., 2025) mitigates collapse via instance filtering (retain
top-p% most-uncertain prompts, measured by reward-std across repeated rollouts) and gradient
shaping. Agent Lightning (Luo et al., 2025) and AgentGym-RL (Xi et al., 2025a) provide decoupled
training systems and modular pipelines across environments and RL algorithms. TSR is orthogonal:
we upgrade the rollout generator with per-turn search; the optimizer, loss, and framework remain
unchanged. We also adopt instance filtering from (Wang et al., 2025) as a separate stabilizer in our
experiments, but our key novelty is trajectory search within the training rollout loop.
Test-time scaling
Prior work has investigated various inference-time scaling strategies such as Bestof-N (BoN) sampling (Ouyang et al., 2022; Gui et al., 2024), beam search (Wang et al., 2024; Alzorgan
& Razi, 2025), and shallow lookahead (Lefebvre & Durand, 2025). These approaches demonstrate
compute-optimal allocation at inference, showing reliable gains under fixed extra compute. TSR
transfers this idea to training-time rollouts: search once (during training), benefit many (during
inference), and optionally combine with light test-time search if desired. Our instantiations follow
BoN, beam search, and shallow lookahead without claiming compute-optimal allocation.
Rejection-sampling-style selection
Several single-turn training works perform response-level
filtering. For example, GFPO (Shrivastava et al., 2025) filters by response length or reward-per-token
within GRPO-style updates. On the other hand, RAFT-style methods (Dong et al., 2023) train on
positively rewarded samples. TSR differs on two axes: (i) multi-turn agent RL with interactive
environments, and (ii) trajectory-level, per-turn tree search to construct candidate paths before
selection. We view these lines as complementary and compare to search-free selection baselines
under matched compute.
Test-time scaling for multi-turn RL
Recent studies have extended inference scaling to agents by
identifying “compute-optimal” frontiers for agents by balancing search breadth against environmental
feedback depth (Zhu et al., 2025a). This includes scaling external interactions and backtracking to
compensate for base policy reasoning limits (Shen et al., 2025). Unlike these inference-only approaches, TSR shifts search-intensive compute to the training phase, distilling high-quality trajectories
into the model weights to reduce test-time latency.
Turn-level credit assignment
Recent work addresses sparse trajectory rewards by extending PPO
and GRPO to multi-turn variants (MT-PPO/MT-GRPO) by introducing turn-level reward designs
(Wei et al., 2025), enabling immediate feedback via verifiable signals or LLM-judging. Similarly,
the AgentPRM framework (Xi et al., 2025b) utilizes process reward models to provide step-wise
evaluations for long-horizon tasks. While these methods refine the learning signal, TSR focuses on
trajectory generation, making it complementary for multi-turn stability.
B
POLICY GRADIENT METHODS IN MULTI-TURN RL
The core idea of policy gradient methods (Sutton et al., 1999) is to perform gradient ascent according
to an objective J(θ), which typically represents the expected cumulative reward that the agent receives
when following the policy πθ and interacting with the environment.
We focus on two widely adopted approaches and adapt them to the multi-turn setting:

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO).
PPO (Schulman et al., 2017) stabilizes training by limiting
the magnitude of policy updates via a clipped surrogate objective:
JPPO(θ) = Eτ∼πθold
"
K
K−1
X
t=0
min

rt(θ) ˆAt, clip(rt(θ), 1 −ϵ, 1 + ϵ) ˆAt
#
,
(7)
where rt(θ) =
πθ(at|τ<t)
πθold(at|τ<t) is the turn-level importance-sampling ratio between the updated and
behavior policy. In standard PPO, ˆAt is typically computed using Generalized Advantage Estimation
(GAE) (Schulman et al., 2018), which relies on a learned value function (critic).
Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO).
Learning a separate value function can still be
computationally expensive and unstable. GRPO (Shao et al., 2024) avoids an explicit critic by
estimating advantages using relative comparisons. Given a group of G trajectories with returns
{R1, . . . , RG} sampled for the same task, the advantage for the i-th trajectory is computed as:
ˆAi = Ri −mean(R1, . . . , RG)
std(R1, . . . , RG) + ϵ
.
(8)
GRPO then optimizes a PPO-style clipped objective averaged over the group:
JGRPO(θ) = E{τi}G
i=1∼πθold
"
G
G
X
i=1
Ki
Ki−1
X
t=0
min

ri,t(θ) ˆAi, clip(ri,t(θ), 1 −ϵ, 1 + ϵ) ˆAi
#
, (9)
where Ki denotes the number of turns in τi, and ri,t(θ) =
πθ(ai,t|τi,<t)
πθold(ai,t|τi,<t) is the per-turn importancesampling ratio, defined analogously to PPO.
C
TRAJECTORY SEARCH ROLLOUT SEARCH STRATEGIES
We instantiate our TSR framework with concrete search strategies inspired by test-time scaling (Snell
et al., 2024), including best-of-N, beam search, and shallow lookahead.
Best-of-N.
From a given Sokoban state, the policy samples N complete rollouts independently.
Trajectories that commit early to irreversible moves (e.g., pushing a box into a dead-end) terminate
with low return, while trajectories that preserve maneuverability succeed. TSR retains only the
highest-scoring trajectory for training.
Beam Search.
At each turn, beam search maintains multiple partial Sokoban trajectories and
expands them in parallel. Prefixes that lead toward dead-end configurations are pruned once their
future feasibility collapses, allowing the search to continue only along branches that remain solvable.
Shallow Lookahead.
For each candidate action in the current Sokoban state, shallow lookahead
briefly simulates a few future steps before committing. Actions whose short-horizon continuations
quickly lead to blocked or low-mobility states are avoided in favor of actions that preserve access for
subsequent box pushes.
Fig. 5 provides a conceptual overview of best-of-N, beam search, and shallow lookahead search
strategies applied in the multi-turn RL setting.
D
RL ENVIRONMENTS
This section provides a detailed description of the Sokoban, FrozenLake, and WebShop environments
used throughout our experiments, as well as the derivation of task-specific proxy scores to assess
per-turn interactions during multi-turn rollout generation.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Figure 5: Illustration of TSR tree-search–based rollout generation with best-of-N, beam search, and
shallow lookahead search methods.
Figure 6: A sample Sokoban environment.
Figure 7: A sample FrozenLake environment.
D.1
ENVIRONMENT DESCRIPTIONS
Sokoban
(Weber et al., 2018) A determinist logic puzzle where the agent is tasked with pushing a
set of boxes into designated target locations within a grid-based warehouse. The task requires the
agent to navigate the grid and interact with boxes via orthogonal pushes, constrained by the inability
to pull the boxes or push multiple boxes simultaneously. The objective is to reach a state where
all boxes are positioned on the target locations, requiring the agent to navigate the grid and avoid
deadlocks where the blocks are pushed into a corner. Rewards are immediate and rolled out per
turn with focus on accuracy and efficiency: +1 per box on target, -1 per box off target, +10 on task
completion, and -0.1 per action. A sample environment is shown in Figure 6.
FrozenLake
(Brockman et al., 2016) A stochastic navigation game where the agent is tasked with
crossing a grid-based frozen lake from a starting point to a goal location. The environment consists
of a grid containing safe frozen tiles, lethal holes, and a terminal goal tile. The task requires the agent
to navigate using orthogonal movements, constrained by the potential for stochastic transitions where
the agent may slide in a direction unintended due to the slippery ice. Each movement action succeeds
with probability 1/3 and deviates perpendicularly with probability 2/3. Rewards are sparse and rolled
out upon reaching the goal: +1 on successful completion and 0 for all others. A sample environment
is shown in Figure 7.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
WebShop
(Yao et al., 2023a) A determinist e-commerce scenario where the agent is tasked with
finding and purchasing specific products on a simulated e-commerce platform. The environment
consists of over a million real-world products, categorized by attributes, descriptions, and pricing.
The task requires the agent to navigate the website by executing high-level actions such as searching,
clicking on product links, and selecting options. The agent is constrained by the need to match a
natural language instruction that specifies multiple product constraints. The objective is to reach the
final checkout state with the correct item, requiring the agent to effectively filter irrelevant search
results and accurately map user requirements to available product specifications.
D.2
TASK-SPECIFIC SCORE DESIGN
Unlike Sokoban, per-turn rollout generation in FrozenLake and WebShop cannot be effectively
guided by environment rewards, as rewards are either extremely sparse or delayed. In these settings,
intermediate reward signals are uninformative or entirely unavailable, rendering direct reward-based
scoring ineffective. Instead, we employ task-specific proxy scores that encode progress and safety,
enabling TSR to rank candidate actions during rollout generation. All proxy scores are lightweight
and do not require training an auxiliary value function.
FrozenLake.
FrozenLake exhibits stochastic transition dynamics and provides a non-zero reward
only upon reaching the goal. To guide rollout generation, we define a heuristic score that balances
progress toward the goal with risk avoidance. Let st denote the agent’s current grid position, g the
goal location, and H the set of hole states. We define the score function
SFL(st, at) = −d(st+1, g) −λ · I[st+1 ∈H],
(10)
where d(·, ·) denotes the Manhattan distance on the grid, I[·] is the indicator function, and λ > 0
controls the penalty for transitioning into a hole. This score favors actions that reduce distance to the
goal while strongly penalizing unsafe transitions. Despite stochastic dynamics, this heuristic provides
a meaningful local signal for ranking candidate actions during rollout construction.
WebShop.
WebShop is deterministic but characterized by delayed rewards, as success is only
signaled after a correct purchase at episode termination. Consequently, per-turn environment rewards
are unavailable during rollout generation. Similar to the original WebShop implementation (Yao
et al., 2023a), we define a proxy score based on task progress and instruction–page alignment. Let u
denote the user instruction and pt the textual content of the current webpage. We define
SWS(ht, at) = α · I[progress(ht+1)] + β · sim(u, pt+1),
(11)
where progress(·) is a binary indicator capturing key milestones (e.g., reaching a product page, adding
an item to the cart, entering checkout), and sim(·, ·) denotes a lightweight textual similarity measure
between the instruction and the current page (e.g., keyword overlap). The weights α, β > 0 balance
structural progress and semantic alignment. This proxy score provides a weak but informative signal
for guiding long-horizon rollout generation.
E
TRAINING AND EVALUATION SETUP
Our training setup closely follows the experimental configuration of RAGEN (Wang et al., 2025),
and we therefore only summarize the key parameters and explicitly note deviations. Unless stated
otherwise, all environment settings, optimization details, and implementation choices are identical to
those used in the RAGEN framework.
Models and Optimization.
We initialize all agents from Qwen2.5-Instruct checkpoints. For
Sokoban and FrozenLake, we train both Qwen2.5-0.5B and Qwen2.5-3B models, while for WebShop we train only Qwen2.5-3B due to its longer context and higher reasoning demands. Policy
optimization is done using PPO for Sokoban and GRPO for FrozenLake and WebShop, consistent
with RAGEN’s findings on stability under stochastic and sparse-reward settings.
Rollout and Update Configuration.
Training proceeds for up to 200 rollout–update iterations for
Sokoban and FrozenLake, and 100 iterations for WebShop. At each iteration, we sample P = 16

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
task instances (prompts), each generating N = 16 rollouts, resulting in 256 trajectories per iteration.
Each trajectory is limited to a maximum of 5 interaction turns, with up to 5 actions per turn and at
most 10 total actions per episode.
Optimization Hyperparameters.
We use the Adam optimizer with learning rate 1 × 10−6 for both
actor and critic (when applicable), and (β1, β2) = (0.9, 0.999). For PPO, advantages are computed
using Generalized Advantage Estimation (GAE) with γ = 1.0 and λ = 1.0, and a clipping parameter
ϵ = 0.2. For GRPO, advantages are computed via group-relative normalization over rollouts sampled
from the same task instance. Entropy regularization with coefficient β = 0.001 is applied in all
experiments. Following RAGEN, we impose a response-format penalty of −0.1 when the model fails
to produce a valid structured output.
Batching and Infrastructure.
The update batch size is set to E = 32, with a mini-batch size of
4 per GPU. All experiments are conducted on 8 NVIDIA A100 GPUs using Fully Sharded Data
Parallel (FSDP) training. Rollout generation is accelerated using vLLM with retained computation
graphs across prefill and sampling, and distributed execution is handled via Ray.
Evaluation Protocol.
Evaluation is performed on a fixed set of 256 held-out prompts per environment. Decoding uses temperature T = 0.5, and episodes are truncated after 5 turns or 10 total
actions. We report the following metrics:
1. Success Rate / Final Task Accuracy. Task completion rate on the fixed validation prompts,
e.g., solving the puzzle in Sokoban, reaching the goal in FrozenLake, and completing a
successful purchase in WebShop.
2. Rollout Entropy. Average token-level entropy of sampled responses, used as a proxy for
exploration and policy uncertainty. Sharp drops indicate premature convergence or collapse.
3. Average Response Length. Mean number of generated tokens per rollout, capturing
verbosity and (in our setup) the extent of reasoning traces.
4. Gradient Norm. ℓ2 norm of the policy gradient vector as an indicator of training stability.
Sudden spikes correlate with unstable updates and potential collapse.
5. Average Number of Turns. Average number of interaction turns per episode before
termination (success, failure, or truncation), to measure whether TSR reduces interaction
budget after training.
6. Wall-Clock Time. Total training time per run (on 8 NVIDIA A100 GPUs), reported to
quantify the computational overhead introduced by search-based rollout generation.
F
SUPPLEMENTARY RESULTS
In this section, we provide additional ablations and results.
F.1
INFERENCE EFFICIENCY
We provide a qualitative example of inference efficiency for the WebShop task, where we show a
typical failure mode of the baseline agent (looping / redundant actions) and a more direct rollout from
TSR-beam.
a) Instance Filtering: longer, looping behavior
Turn 1
Instruction:
Find decorative pillows ...
color beige latte ...
size 20’’x20’’ ...
under $30 ...
Output:
<think>Search for beige pillows with size
20x20.</think> <answer>search[bisque pillow beige
20x20]</answer>
Reward: 0.0
Turn 2
State: Search results page (50 items).

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Output:
<think>Click a result and then filter
color/size.</think> <answer>click[b08l2zdwn2]</answer>
Reward: 0.0
Turn 3
State:
Filters
shown
(color:
beige latte, black, ...,
size:
18’’x18’’, ...).
Output:
<think>Try clicking color filters.</think>
<answer>click[beige latte]</answer>
Reward: 0.0
Turn 4–8
Output: (repeated filter clicks / back-and-forth navigation)
Reward: 0.0
(Agent exhausts actions or remains in an unproductive loop.)
TSR (Beam Search): shorter, goal-directed behavior
Turn 1
Output:
<think>Use a targeted query to reduce
backtracking.</think> <answer>search[decorative pillow cover
beige latte]</answer>
Reward: 0.0
Turn 2
State: Search results page.
Output:
<think>Select the most compatible result, then finish
checkout.</think> <answer>click[b09f6scw47]</answer>
Reward: 0.0
Turn 3
State: Product page with options + buy now.
Output: <answer>click[buy now]</answer>
Reward: +1.0
F.2
SCALING SEARCH BUDGETS
We provide additional experiments analyzing the effect of scaling search budget parameters for TSR
(Beam Search) in Tables 5, 6, and 7 for Sokoban, FrozenLake, and WebShop, respectively. The
results corroborate our main findings and show that the largest gains arise from increasing the beam
width from B = 1 to B = 2. In contrast, increasing the number of action samples M exhibits
diminishing returns, leading to a plateauing performance trend. Overall, we find that moderate search
budgets (e.g., B = 2, M = 4) offer a favorable trade-off between performance and computational
cost. Similar trends are observed for TSR (Best-of-N) and TSR (Lookahead) variants, which we
omit for brevity.
Table 5: Sokoban: Beam Search Scaling. Increasing beam width (B) from 1 to 2 yields the largest
gain. Increasing samples (M) shows diminishing returns.
Budget
Qwen2.5-0.5B
Qwen2.5-3B
S.R. (↑)
Resp. Len (↓)
Turns (↓)
S.R. (↑)
Resp. Len (↓)
Turns (↓)
M=2, B=1
36.8
3.95
50.6
3.70
M=4, B=1
37.6
3.88
51.4
3.65
M=6, B=1
37.9
3.85
51.8
3.62
M=2, B=2
38.3
3.80
52.3
3.60
M=4, B=2
39.1
3.75
53.1
3.55
M=6, B=2
39.4
3.72
53.4
3.52
F.3
WALL-CLOCK TIME ANALYSIS
Shifting trajectory search from inference time to training time incurs additional computational
overhead during training. While part of this cost can be amortized at inference time through improved

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Table 6: FrozenLake: Beam Search Scaling. Performance trends are consistent with Sokoban,
where wider beams (B = 2) outperform greedy search (B = 1) across all sample counts.
Budget
Qwen2.5-0.5B
Qwen2.5-3B
S.R. (↑)
Resp. Len (↓)
Turns (↓)
S.R. (↑)
Resp. Len (↓)
Turns (↓)
M=2, B=1
28.7
3.65
58.9
3.20
M=4, B=1
29.3
3.58
59.6
3.16
M=6, B=1
29.5
3.56
59.9
3.14
M=2, B=2
30.0
3.50
60.7
3.10
M=4, B=2
30.6
3.47
61.3
3.08
M=6, B=2
30.8
3.46
61.5
3.07
Table 7: WebShop: Beam Search Scaling (Qwen2.5-3B). Performance trends are consistent with
Sokoban and FrozenLake, where wider beams (B = 2) outperform greedy search (B = 1).
Budget
Qwen2.5-3B
S.R. (↑)
Resp. Len (↓)
Turns (↓)
M=2, B=1
83.6
6.05
M=4, B=1
84.5
5.90
M=6, B=1
84.8
5.86
M=2, B=2
85.3
5.80
M=4, B=2
86.0
5.75
M=6, B=2
86.3
5.72
efficiency (e.g., fewer interaction turns and shorter responses), it remains important to analyze the
overall wall-clock cost and convergence behavior.
Tables 8, 9, and 10 report wall-clock training times for the Sokoban, FrozenLake, and WebShop
tasks, respectively, under the search configurations used in the main body. In particular, we report
wall-clock time (in hours), the number of training steps and elapsed time required to reach 80% of
the final success rate, and the corresponding steps and wall-clock time to final convergence.
In general, trajectory search rollout incurs more training-time overhead compared to the instance-level
filtering baseline. However, when considering both time-to-convergence metrics and the learning
dynamics shown in Fig. 3, we observe that trajectory search rollout methods typically converge in
fewer training iterations. As a result, the total time to reach convergence remains comparable to the
instance-level filtering baseline across tasks and model sizes, despite the higher per-iteration cost.
Overall, these results indicate that TSR does not significantly slow down end-to-end training. Instead,
they trade increased per-step computation for faster convergence and improved final performance,
yielding similar wall-clock time to convergence while achieving higher accuracy.
Table 8: Wall-clock time and convergence analysis on Sokoban (Qwen2.5-0.5B and Qwen2.5-3B).
We report final success rate, total wall-clock training time, and the number of steps and wall-clock
time required to reach 80% of final performance and full convergence.
Model
Method
Final
Success Rate (%)
Wall
Time (h)
Steps to
80%
Time to
80% (h)
Steps to
Convergence
Time to
Convergence (h)
Qwen2.5-0.5B
Instance Filtering
29.0
1.72
0.77
1.54
TSR (Best-of-N)
33.3
2.51
0.75
1.51
TSR (Lookahead)
36.1
3.11
0.86
1.63
TSR (Beam Search)
38.3
3.69
0.92
1.66
Qwen2.5-3B
Instance Filtering
43.7
2.22
1.11
1.99
TSR (Best-of-N)
47.7
3.37
1.18
2.53
TSR (Lookahead)
49.5
3.96
0.89
2.96
TSR (Beam Search)
52.3
4.56
1.25
2.05

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Table 9: Wall-clock time and convergence analysis on FrozenLake (Qwen2.5-0.5B and Qwen2.5-3B).
We report final success rate, total wall-clock training time, and the number of steps and wall-clock
time required to reach 80% of final performance and full convergence.
Model
Method
Final
Success Rate (%)
Wall
Time (h)
Steps to
80%
Time to
80% (h)
Steps to
Convergence
Time to
Convergence (h)
Qwen2.5-0.5B
Instance Filtering
19.7
1.34
0.54
0.80
TSR (Best-of-N)
25.0
2.64
0.93
1.32
TSR (Lookahead)
27.8
2.53
0.76
1.14
TSR (Beam Search)
30.0
2.38
0.71
0.95
Qwen2.5-3B
Instance Filtering
48.7
1.85
1.39
1.57
TSR (Best-of-N)
55.0
3.47
1.91
2.43
TSR (Lookahead)
57.0
3.19
1.44
2.08
TSR (Beam Search)
60.7
2.90
1.16
1.45
Table 10: Wall-clock time and convergence analysis on WebShop (Qwen2.5-3B). We report final
success rate, total wall-clock training time, and the number of steps and wall-clock time required to
reach 80% of final performance and full convergence.
Method
Final
Success Rate (%)
Wall
Time (h)
Steps to
80%
Time to
80% (h)
Steps to
Convergence
Time to
Convergence (h)
Instance Filtering
70.3
6.24
4.87
5.31
TSR (Best-of-N)
77.3
9.75
5.85
6.83
TSR (Lookahead)
82.3
12.78
5.75
8.31
TSR (Beam Search)
85.3
14.94
6.73
7.47