Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
SCALING AGENTS FOR COMPUTER USE
Anonymous authors
Paper under double-blind review
ABSTRACT
Computer-use agents (CUAs) hold promise for automating everyday digital tasks,
but their performance on long-horizon, complex problems remains unreliable.
Single-rollout execution is brittle, with small errors compounding over time and
leading to high variance in outcomes. While prior work has attempted to scale
within a single rollout, such approaches have yielded limited gains. Scaling over
multiple rollouts offers a more promising alternative but doing so effectively is
challenging due to the difficulty of evaluating and selecting among long-horizon
agent behaviors. We introduce Behavior Judge (BJudge), which addresses this
challenge by representing agent executions as behavior narratives and comparing
candidate behaviors at this level, substantially improving robustness and success
rates. Using multiple rollouts, BJudge establishes a new state of the art (SoTA)
in OSWorld at 72.6%, significantly outperforming prior methods and surpassing
human-level performance at 72.36%, with comprehensive ablations validating key
design choices. We further demonstrate strong generalization results to different
operating systems on WindowsAgentArena and AndroidWorld. Crucially, our results highlight the strong effectiveness of scaling CUAs, when you do it right:
effective scaling requires structured trajectory understanding and selection, and
BJudge provides a practical framework to achieve this.
INTRODUCTION
Figure 1: Performance on OSWorld at 100 steps.
Our
method beats the previous SoTA by 9.2% absolute improvement and surpasses human level performance on OSWorld.
Computer-use agents (CUAs) offer
the promise of automating everyday
digital tasks across operating systems
and applications (Xie et al., 2024;
Song et al., 2025; Guo et al., 2025b;
Yang et al., 2025b; Xie et al., 2025;
Wang et al., 2025a;b).
Yet despite
rapid advances, current CUAs remain
unreliable on long-horizon, complex
problems.
The difficulty lies not
only in solving individual steps but
also in sustaining correctness across
dozens or even hundreds of interactions.
Small mistakes accumulate, feedback is often delayed, solution paths branch in unpredictable
ways, and environmental noise (UI
changes, pop-ups, latency) further
destabilizes performance (Yang et al., 2025a). Together, these factors lead to high variance in outcomes, with the same agent often succeeding on one attempt but failing catastrophically on another.
A natural response to this variance is to scale execution. Prior work (Yang et al., 2025b) has explored
scaling within a single rollout to combat variance but single-trajectory scaling has led to limited
improvements in overall success on long-horizon tasks. An alternative approach is wide scaling:
instead of simply accepting a single rollout from one agent, we can scale the number of agents to
generate multiple rollouts in parallel and select the best. This wide scaling perspective leverages the
fact that agents, while suboptimal individually, often succeed on complementary subsets of tasks, as
shown in Figure 2.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Figure 2: Disjoint task success across rollouts by three agent instances. Behavior Judge (bBoN)
leverages this complementarity by selecting the best trajectory among multiple rollouts.
In practice, however, wide scaling exposes a fundamental bottleneck: evaluation. While generating
multiple rollouts is straightforward, reliably determining which long-horizon trajectory is correct is
not. Agent trajectories are information-dense and multimodal, with most details irrelevant to task
success, making them difficult to interpret, compare, and evaluate. Moreover, many computer-use
tasks admit multiple valid solutions, and scripted automatic evaluation struggles to decide whether
a trajectory is correct (Xie et al., 2024; Rawles et al., 2025; Bonatti et al., 2025).
To address these challenges, we introduce Behavior Judge (BJudge), a novel framework that enables
wide scaling of CUAs through principled trajectory representation and selection. Our approach first
converts raw trajectories into behavior narratives: concise summaries that capture what the agent
actually did and how it affected the environment, preserving task-relevant action–effect summaries
while filtering away irrelevant detail at individual steps. These narratives provide a compact yet
faithful representation that makes it easier for a judge to compare candidates. BJudge then performs
selection directly over narratives, enabling reliable selection among multiple rollouts. In addition,
we build upon existing CUAs and introduce an improved computer-use agentic framework to generate high quality trajectories for BJudge.
Our method delivers strong performance on computer-use benchmarks. On OSWorld (Xie et al.,
2024), it achieves a new state of the art with a 72.6% success rate (100 steps), surpassing the previous
best of 63.4% and human-level performance at 72.36% (Figure 1). Beyond OSWorld, our approach
also demonstrates strong zero-shot generalizability on WindowsAgentArena (Bonatti et al., 2025)
and AndroidWorld (Rawles et al., 2025).
Our contributions are four-fold:
• We introduce the wide scaling paradigm for CUAs, showing that carefully selecting from
multiple trajectories substantially improves robustness and coverage.
• We propose Behavior Judge (BJudge), a framework that enables the evaluation of multiple
rollouts by converting dense trajectories into compact behavior narratives and using them
for principled trajectory selection.
• Our method, together with an improved CUA baseline, achieves a new SoTA of 72.6%
on OSWorld, surpassing prior work by a large margin (9.2% absolute improvement) and
surpassing human performance at 72.36%.
• We provide extensive ablations validating our design choices and demonstrate strong zeroshot generalizability on WindowsAgentArena and AndroidWorld.
BACKGROUND
2.1
COMPUTER-USE AGENTS
Computer-use agents (CUAs) executing user instructions can be framed as a partially observable
Markov Decision Process (POMDP) defined as M = ⟨S, O, A, T , I, R⟩, where S is the state space
encoding the computer state, O is the observation space such as desktop screenshots, A is the action
space of the agent (e.g. agent.click(...) and agent.type(...)), T : S × A →∆(S)
is a stochastic transition function, I is the space of possible user instructions represented in natural
language, and R : (S × A)∗× I →[0, 1] denotes the instruction reward function that assigns a
scalar reward to a trajectory of states and actions τ := (s0, a0, . . . , aT −1, st) on task I. We use
ht := (o0, a0, . . . , ot−1, at−1, ot) to denote a time-ordered history of all consecutive observations
and actions up to and including ot.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
A broad spectrum of computer agents has been explored including general agentic frameworks (Song
et al., 2025; Yang et al., 2025b; Agashe et al., 2025b;a), generalist agents (Anthropic, 2025; OpenAI,
2024; Guo et al., 2025a) and graphical user interface (GUI) agents (Wang et al., 2025a; Xu et al.,
2025). These prior work consider a single model as the policy π(a|ht, I) that, when executed, yields
one trajectory τ = (o0, a0, . . . , oT ) where at ∼π(·|ht, I). In contrast, our work is the first, to our
knowledge, that focuses on scaling the number of candidate solution trajectories by using multiple
base models and policies, and we propose effective methods to select the optimal solution.
2.2
TEST-TIME SCALING
A common strategy for improving large multimodal models and their agentic extensions is through
test-time scaling (Zhu et al., 2025), where multiple solutions are generated either in parallel or
sequentially, followed by selection of a final response using a reward model or iterative generation
of new solutions (Snell et al., 2025; Lightman et al., 2024; Jain et al., 2025). Recent work (Yang
et al., 2025b) has adapted this idea for CUAs with step-wise BoN (Zhu et al., 2025), where at each
step the agent π generates K candidate actions Ct = {a(k)
t
}K
k=1 ∼π(·|ht, I) and then a judge J
selects the best action ˆa = J(Ct). While this can help with local improvements, it commits the
rollout to the current agent plan. In tasks with multiple valid solutions paths, this can lead the agent
to over-commit to a harder route, missing easier alternatives. In contrast, our work investigates
the wide scaling approach where a judge must select the best trajectory among a set of candidate
trajectories generated by multiple base agents or models.
However, wide scaling is non-trivial because trajectory evaluation is still a fundamental challenge.
Most existing benchmarks such as OSWorld (Xie et al., 2024), WindowsAgentArena (Bonatti et al.,
2025), and AndroidWorld (Rawles et al., 2025) use evaluation scripts written by humans which
cannot be scaled. In contrast, work on web-agent benchmarks, a subset of CUA focused on browsers,
has explored using vision-language models (VLMs) as judges (He et al., 2024; Deng et al., 2023;
Xue et al., 2025). However, these judges are typically tuned for the web domain, require humandefined rubrics, and do not generalize well to the broader tasks faced by CUAs. In addition, aligning
such judges with human judgment requires substantial manual effort, such as in Mind2Web 2 (Gou
et al., 2025) that achieved 99% agreement using code-generated rubrics but still relied on extensive
human verification. Moreover, all these evaluation methods only work with a single trajectory.
Our work aims to implement a judge to handle trajectory evaluation by (1) improving trajectory
understanding by converting trajectories into a behavior narrative that describes what an agent did
and (2) comparing trajectories using the behavior narratives to effectively distinguish the best.
METHOD
Our Behavior Judge framework, shown in Figure 3, is designed to enable wide scaling over many
agent rollouts. We improve upon Agent S2 (Agashe et al., 2025b), a top-performing open-source
agentic framework, and introduce two key components: Behavior Narrative Generator and Comparative Behavior Evaluator. Given a rollout, the Behavior Narrative Generator derives facts from
each transition, yielding a behavior narrative that describes what the agent did (action-effects) while
discarding irrelevant details. The Comparative Behavior Evaluator then conducts a comparative
evaluation of the candidate narratives across multiple rollouts to determine the best solution.
3.1
BEHAVIOR NARRATIVE GENERATION
Long-horizon trajectories are information-dense, with every step producing a new screenshot. We
argue that it is not necessary or even optimal to judge all of the raw visual content directly to understand what actually occurred. We propose to extract the task-relevant changes caused by the
agent’s actions from screenshots in order for a downstream judge to focus on the changes that
matter.
We construct a behavior narrative composed of facts that describe what the agent did
at each step. Concretely, given a generator G (instantiated using a VLM) and an agent rollout
τ = (s0, a1, s1, . . . , aT −1, sT ) where s denotes a screenshot and a denotes an agent action, we
feed in transitions (si, ai, si+1) to the generator and derive facts ϕi = G(si, ai, si+1), for each
i ∈{0, . . . , T −1}.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Figure 3: Behavior Judge generates multiple rollouts consisting of screenshots and actions. These
trajectories are converted into behavior narratives via the behavior narrative generator, using the
executed action and before/after screenshots to describe what was changed. Finally, the behavior
narratives are provided to the judge which selects the best trajectory through comparison.
To generate accurate facts, the Behavior Narrative Generator takes in a screenshot before action
execution, the action to execute, and the screenshot after execution as depicted in Figure 3. The generator applies targeted visual augmentations for pointer interactions (clicks, taps, moves, and drags),
as these actions require pixel-level precision and are more prone to agent hallucination. For example, a step-level hallucination where a click on the Save button fails but the agent believes otherwise
can be the difference between a success or failure. On the screenshot before action execution si, we
overlay a marker centered at the pointer coordinate (xi, yi) where ai will occur. On the screenshot
after action execution si+1, we extract a zoomed crop sz
i+1 of a fixed-size square centered at the final
pointer coordinate (xi+1, yi+1) and outline the crop in si+1 to indicate the region of interest. The
zoom provides the generator with fine-grained evidence to verify that the intended change occurred.
To handle cases where changes are delayed (e.g. clicking a hyperlink), screenshot si+1 is taken 3
seconds after action execution.
Once facts have been derived from each transition, we construct a behavior narrative ˜τ
=
(s0, ϕ0, ϕ1 . . . , ϕT −1, sT ) that retains only task-relevant changes. We include the initial and final
screenshot to ground where changes begin from and what they result in. This allows Behavior Judge
to focus solely on what the agent did differently between trajectories.
3.2
COMPARATIVE BEHAVIOR EVALUATOR
While generating multiple rollouts increases the chance that at least one rollout is successful, the
benefits can only be realized if we can reliably select the correct trajectory. Selection is challenging
because an evaluator must both interpret long-horizon behavior within each rollout (to verify task
requirements) and discriminate among candidates. To simplify this, we decide to separate these
responsibilities by generating a concise behavior narrative that describes the long-horizon behavior
so the bulk of the evaluator’s responsibility lies on selecting between candidates.
Concretely, given a set of base policies {πm}M
m=1, we generate candidates C = SM
m=1{τ (n)
m }Nm
n=1
where each candidate τ (n)
m is sampled via stochastic decoding from a base policy πm. This allows us
to capture diversity from variance within the same model (n = 1 . . . Nm) and differing capabilities
across different models (m = 1 . . . M). Our objective is to select the candidate trajectory that maximizes task return ˆτ ∈arg maxτ∈C R(τ, I). The candidate set C is converted to a corresponding
set of behavior narrative candidates ˜C := {˜τ (n)}|C|
n=1, according to the behavior narrative generaSubmitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
tion in Section 3.1. Then a VLM evaluator E is prompted to run comparative evaluation using all
narratives in ˜C and select a single best narrative candidate, which corresponds to the final selected
trajectory ˆτ ∈C. In this work, we instantiate comparative evaluation using a single-round multiplechoice question (MCQ) format, which enables a more informed comparison than independent ranking while being more token-efficient and faster than multi-round tournament-style comparisons of
subsets of candidates. The system prompt (Section H) emphasizes on citing and contrasting facts to
ensure each candidates’ behaviors are carefully observed, which we find gives small improvements
(Section F). By comparing behavior narratives altogether, we enable wide scaling over many agents.
3.3
AN IMPROVED AGENTIC FRAMEWORK BASELINE
As Behavior Judge operates on multiple full-length trajectories generated by base agents, we can
improve the overall performance and latency of BJudge by starting with the best frameworks for
the base agents. Inspired by Agashe et al. (2025b) and Song et al. (2025), we created an improved
baseline agentic framework, Agent S3, which achieves strong performance even before incorporation
into BJudge. It draws upon two key ideas: 1) performance gains of programmatic edits over direct
GUI manipulation when needed (up to the agent itself), and 2) speedup by using a flat (worker only)
policy instead of a manager-worker hierarchy.
Coding Agent
To encourage diverse solution paths, our GUI policy π(at | I, ht) reasons what approach might be best suited for the next step: generate a GUI action at ∈Agui or invoke the coding
agent for programmatic edits (e.g., bulk operations, file transforms, structured parsing). A code call
launches a bounded inner loop with budget B that iterates on generated code and terminal feedback.
At inner step k, the coding agent conditions on ccode
k
= (I, ot, F1:k−1), where F1:k−1 aggregates execution signals (status, return code, stdout/stderr) from prior iterations. It either emits Python/Bash
to be executed in a sandboxed VM, or returns a control token DONE/FAIL. On termination, a brief
summary of the session—logic, observed effects, and a verifiable inspection checklist—is appended
to the GUI agent’s history to aid on-screen verification and subsequent planning by the GUI policy.
Different from Song et al. (2025), our coding agent implementation does not use the AutoGen Wu
et al. (2024) framework nor does it use an orchestrator to divide and delegate tasks across the GUI
and coding agents. Our coding agent implementation is natively integrated into our GUI agent’s
action space, allowing GUI agent to reason when best to delegate the next step to the coding agent.
Flat Policy
We remove hierarchical planning in favor of a flat policy that can replan at any time
based on (I, ht). Contemporary foundation models exhibit strong GUI understanding and can maintain short-horizon plans in context, making a separate high-level planner unnecessary and sometimes
counterproductive (e.g., when subgoals become stale). We evaluate these design choices in Table 2;
implementation details appear in Appendix D.
EXPERIMENTS AND ANALYSIS
In the following experiments, we systematically investigate the effectiveness of Behavior Judge
(BJudge) across several dimensions of computer-use agents. Specifically, we aim to address the
following research questions:
1. Performance. How does BJudge perform compared with other CUA baselines? (Sec 4.2)
2. Equal rollout budget. How do judging strategies perform under equal rollout budget? (Sec 4.3)
3. Representation. How do behavior narratives compare to other representations? (Sec 4.4)
4. Failure modes. How accurate is BJudge’s evaluation and what are its failure modes? (Sec 4.5)
5. Resource allocation. How does BJudge perform with varying steps across workers? (Sec 4.6)
6. Ensembling. How should we select a mixture-of-models ensemble for rollouts? (Sec 4.7)
7. Generalizability. How does BJudge generalize to other domains and benchmarks? (Sec 4.8)
4.1
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
Benchmarks
We focus on OSWorld (Xie et al., 2024), which comprises 369 real-world Ubuntu
tasks across five domains (OS, Office, Daily, Professional, Workflow). Following common practice

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Method
Model
100-step
Agent S2 (Agashe et al., 2025b)
GPT-5
48.8
Jedi-7B (Xie et al., 2025)
o3
51.0
CoAct-1 (Song et al., 2025)
OAI CUA + o3 + o4-mini
59.9
Ours
Agent S3
o3
61.1
Agent S3
GPT-5 Mini
49.8
Agent S3
GPT-5
62.6
Scaling Results
GTA1 (step-wise scaling) (Yang et al., 2025b)
o3
53.1
GTA1 (step-wise scaling) (Yang et al., 2025b)
GPT-5
63.4
Agent S3 w/ WebJudge (N=10) (Xue et al., 2025)
GPT-5 Mini
50.4
Ours
Agent S3 w/ BJudge (N=10)
GPT-5 Mini
60.2
Agent S3 w/ BJudge (N=10)
GPT-5
69.9
Agent S3 w/ BJudge (N=10)
GPT-5 + Opus 4.5
72.6
Table 1: OSWorld success rate (%) on 100-step tasks across 361 tasks. We introduce Agent S3,
which achieves strong performance with GPT-5 at 62.6% averaged over 10 runs. Our method,
Behavior Judge, enables strong scaling results with new SoTA at 72.6% with an ensemble of GPT-5
and Opus 4.5, chosen from Table 5.
(Xie & et al., 2024), we use the 361-task subset that omits eight multi-application tasks requiring
Google Drive credentials not available in the sandbox. We further assess generality beyond Ubuntu
on two additional benchmarks: WindowsAgentArena (Bonatti et al., 2025), a 154-task Windows
benchmark, spanning LibreOffice Writer/Calc, Edge/Chrome, File Explorer/Windows Settings, VS
Code, VLC, and utilities; and AndroidWorld (Rawles et al., 2025), a 116-task Android benchmark
with step budgets specified by the benchmark authors.1
Baselines
On OSWorld, we introduce Agent S3 as an improved baseline for scaling results. We
additionally compare against other top methods including Jedi (Xie et al., 2025), GTA1 (Yang et al.,
2025b) and CoACT-1 (Song et al., 2025). For AndroidWorld, we compare with 3 top-performing
open-source frameworks using screen-shot only representations including MobileUse (Li et al.,
2025), UI-Venus (Gu et al., 2025), and Agent S2 (Agashe et al., 2025b). For WindowsAgentArena,
we compare with Navi (Bonatti et al., 2025) and Agent S2 (Agashe et al., 2025b). For ablation of
the judge for scaling, we compare against an adaptation of WebJudge (Xue et al., 2025), which has
85% agreement with human judgment, for isolating the effect of comparative versus independent
trajectory selection mechanisms. We also implement and compare against three baselines when isolating the effect of representation: 1) a naive captioner that captions each screenshot individually, 2)
a trajectory summarizer and 3) using screenshots only.
Implementation Details
Agent S3 is an improvement over Agent S2 that removes hierarchical
planning and adds a coding agent (details in Appendix D). We use Agent S3 to generate rollouts for
BJudge trajectory selection. The coding agent is enabled for OSWorld and WindowsAgentArena
but disabled for AndroidWorld due to emulator constraints that preclude program execution and
inspection. Our best score uses 5 rollouts from GPT-5 and Opus 4.5 each and uses Opus to generate
facts while GPT-5 selects the best rollout. We also adapt WebJudge to do comparative selection by
individually ranking each trajectory with a score 1-5 and choosing the highest score, tie-breaking at
random, and we adapted the system prompt to the OS setting. For our Screenshot Only baseline,
we pass 50/N screenshots per trajectory chosen at uniform intervals across the trajectory, due to
context length limitations. Details on cost and runtime can be found in Appendix B.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Method
100-step SR (%)
LLM calls/task
Time/task (s)
Agent S2 (Agashe et al., 2025b)
48.8
73.62
2366.80
Agent S2 (no hier.)
57.9 (+9.1)
41.39 (-43.8%)
1132.91 (-52.1%)
Agent S3
62.6 (+13.8)
35.12 (-52.3%)
891.21 (-62.4%)
Table 2: OSWorld success rate and efficiency statistics using GPT-5. Baseline is Agent S2 with
hierarchical planning; values in parentheses show ∆vs. Agent S2 (for SR and efficiency metrics).
4.2
MAIN RESULTS
As shown in Table 1, Agent S3 already establishes a strong foundation, achieving strong non-scaling
performance on 100-step success rate for OSWorld. Building on this, applying our core contribution,
Behavior Judge (BJudge), to multiple rollouts of Agent S3 further improves performance on 100
steps. For example, it achieves 69.9% SR with GPT-5 (a 7.3% absolute improvement) and 60.2%
SR with GPT-5 Mini (a 10.4% absolute improvement). Our best result at 72.6% using GPT-5 and
Opus 4.5 surpasses human performance at 72.36% (Xie et al., 2024), highlighting that BJudge can
boost existing methods to reach human-level capability.
In addition, Table 2 reports the performance and efficiency gains of our improved agentic framework
baseline, Agent S3, compared to Agent S2 (Agashe et al., 2025b) that it was built upon. Agent S3
yields a 13.8% improvement in success rate, a 52.3% reduction in LLM calls per task, and a 62.4%
reduction in average task completion time.
4.3
HOW DOES BEHAVIOR JUDGE PERFORM UNDER EQUAL ROLLOUT BUDGETS?
Figure 4: Comparison of BJudge against WebJudge on
OSWorld using GPT-5 Mini’s rollouts. Average represents the average performance of the rollouts.
Figure 4 shows a comparison between
BJudge and baselines using equal rollout budgets.
We modify WebJudge to
choose over the same number of rollouts
as BJudge by independently ranking rollouts and selecting the highest rank. We
find that overall BJudge achieves better
performance than baselines when compared equally.
We find that WebJudge
provides limited benefit over the average
performance of rollouts and that BJudge
shows better scaling as we increase the
number of rollouts. While WebJudge has
some slight improvements around N=4, it
plateaus quickly and drops around N=10.
This suggests that it is necessary to compare trajectories against each other to
make selection effective and scalable with
any rollout budget.
4.4
HOW DO BEHAVIOR NARRATIVES COMPARE TO OTHER TRAJECTORY REPRESENTATIONS?
Representation
Sucess Rate (%)
Screenshot Only
56.0
Trajectory Summary
55.0
Naive Captioning
56.8
Behavior Narratives
60.2
Table 3: Ablation study on BJudge’s behavior narrative representation with 10 GPT-5 Mini rollouts.
1Experiments were conducted under the AndroidWorld step budget guidelines as of September 20, 2025.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Table 3 shows an ablation on our behavior narrative representation.
We compare against a
screenshot-only baseline, a trajectory summary baseline that summarizes the trajectory in 3-6 sentences, and a naive captioning baseline that captions each screenshot individually. We find that
behavior narratives are an effective representation for BJudge, providing a 3.4% improvement over
the best baseline. This suggests that it is difficult to understand screenshots alone and that it is
necessary to generate facts over transitions rather than individual states.
4.5
BJUDGE ACCURACY AND FAILURE ANALYSIS
Category
Judge Subset Accuracy
Full Set Accuracy
Benchmark Alignment
78.4%
69.9%
Human Alignment
92.8%
76.3%
Table 4: BJudge accuracies on Judge Subset and Full Set with 10 GPT-5 rollouts on OSWorld.
The Judge Subset consists of a subset of 159 OSWorld problems that could be improved on due to
disjoint task success.
Table 4 shows the accuracy of BJudge with respect to OSWorld evaluation scripts and to our human
alignment. We find that on 159 problems (Judge Subset) where the judge can improve performance
(i.e. where there is at least one correct and one incorrect trajectory), it achieves 78.4% accuracy
during selection. After manual inspection over the remaining 35 problems, we found through human
evaluation that the accuracy is 92.8%, as the OSWorld evaluation scripts are imperfect and can only
strictly evaluate one pre-defined solution. This suggests that BJudge is highly effective at selecting
the right trajectories from multiple candidates.
For the remaining 12 failures, we categorize these as behavior narrative generation hallucinations
(8) and Code-GUI handoff failures (4). We observe generation hallucination occur in instances
where the underlying VLM has difficulty with visual understanding such as missing fine-grained
details in text which zooming has little effect on (e.g. the negative sign on a number as shown in
Appendix G). We also observe some cases where the GUI-Agent failed to recognize the Coding
Agent’s changes, and perform GUI actions overwriting Coding Agent’s changes and cause evaluation to fail. These kind of failed rollouts generate rich GUI-related behavioral narratives, which are
preferred by BJudge compared to the rollouts whereas the Coding Agent performs everything in one
step and completes, outputting limited behavioral narratives.
4.6
HOW DOES BEHAVIOR JUDGE PERFORM UNDER VARYING RESOURCE BUDGETS?
Figure 5:
Comparison of BJudge with varying resources calculated by the number of workers times step
budget using GPT-5.
Figure 5 analyzes how BJudge performance varies with the total resource budget and the number of workers N. The xaxis reports the total budget, defined as
the number of workers multiplied by the
per-worker step budget, with each curve
corresponding to a different allocation of
this budget across workers.
At smaller
budgets, a single agent performs best, as
distributing compute across many workers reduces the per-worker step budget below what is required to complete the task.
As the total budget increases, larger values
of N become increasingly effective with
BJudge (N=4) achieving a 4.25% absolute
improvement over a single agent at twice
the total budget (200), while the largest
gain of 6.38% is observed with BJudge
(N=10) at a budget of 1000. These results suggest that moderate values of N offer a favorable tradeSubmitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
off under tighter compute budgets, while larger N yields the highest performance when sufficient
resources are available.
4.7
HOW SHOULD WE SELECT A MIXTURE-OF-MODELS ENSEMBLE FOR ROLLOUTS?
Mixture
SR (%)
Pass@N (%)
GPT-5
66.5
74.7
Claude Opus 4.5
69.9
74.5
Gemini 3
67.7
74.3
GPT-5 Mini
57.0
68.2
GPT-5 + Mini
64.9
74.1
GPT-5 + Opus
71.6
79.1
GPT-5 + Gemini
67.3
78.5
Opus + Gemini
70.6
78.2
Opus + Mini
66.0
75.6
Gemini + Mini
65.1
75.3
All
68.4
80.5
Table 5: Success rate and task coverage for BJudge using mixture-of-model combinations with GPT-5, GPT5 Mini, Gemini-3, and Claude Opus 4.5. Each mixture’s success rate is on N=4 runs split evenly.
Table 5 shows the success rate and
task coverage of BJudge using various
mixture-of-model combinations.
Task
coverage is calculated by setting a task
successful if at least one trajectory is
correct, or Pass@N (Chen et al., 2021).
We observe that from the single model
mixtures, Claude Opus 4.5 performs the
strongest at 69.9% followed by Gemini 3
at 67.7%, demonstrating that strong model
capabilities lead to overall higher success
with selection. We also observe that the
most diverse mixture (All) achieves the
highest overall task coverage at 80.5%,
demonstrating that diversity is key to increasing the upper bound on success. Finally, we observe that the GPT-5 + Claude
Opus 4.5 mixture achieves the highest success rate of 71.6%, suggesting that selecting a mixture-of-models ensemble with
highly diverse capable models achieves
the best performance.
4.8
GENERALIZATION TO OTHER BENCHMARKS
Method
Model
50-step
100-step
UI-TARS-1.5
-
42.1
-
Agent S3
GPT-5
49.0
50.2
BJudge (N=3)
GPT-5
54.1
56.6
Table 6: WindowsAgentArena success rate
(%) within 50 steps and 100 steps. Behavior Judge (N=3) consistently outperforms the
baseline Agent S3, with a 6.4% improvement
on 100-step SR.
Method
Model
SR (%)
Agent S2
Claude 3.7 Sonnet
54.3
MobileUse
Qwen2.5-VL-72B
62.9
UI-Venus
UI-Venus-Navi-72B
65.9
Agent S3
GPT-5
68.1
BJudge (N=3)
GPT-5
71.6
Table 7: AndroidWorld success rate (%). Behavior Judge (N=3) achieves a 3.5% improvement over the baseline Agent S3.
Table 6 and 7 demonstrate strong generalizability of BJudge to different operating systems. For
AndroidWorld, we compare with top 3 performing open-source, screenshot-only methods including
AgentS2 (Agashe et al., 2025b), MobileUse (Li et al., 2025), and UI-Venus (Gu et al., 2025) For
WindowsAgentArena, we compare with Agent S2 and UI-TARS-1.5 (Seed, 2025). We find that
Behavior Judge, with N = 3, achieves a performance boost of 3.5% and 6.4% respectively, demonstrating that our method can generalize well to other domains.
LIMITATIONS
Behavior Judge assumes access to an agent capable of producing multiple independent rollouts
from the same initial state. This assumption is standard in research benchmarks, where controlled
and repeatable initializations are required for reproducibility and fair comparison across methods. It
also applies to many practical deployments in which computer-use agents are executed in virtualized
environments (e.g., VMs or containers) that support snapshotting and duplication, enabling parallel
rollouts with limited additional wall-clock latency. Running agents directly on a user’s live desktop

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
without isolation can violate the independence assumption, as concurrent rollouts may interfere with
each other and isolating side effects becomes challenging. Even with separate virtual environments,
tasks that interact with shared online resources (e.g., email, cloud storage, or shopping carts) may
introduce cross-run interference through shared external state. These challenges are not specific to
Behavior Judge, but reflect broader system-level constraints in current CUA deployments and call
for future work on CUA infrastructure improvements.
CONCLUSION
We introduced a novel wide scaling paradigm for computer-use agents (CUAs), showing that generating multiple trajectories in parallel and selecting among them substantially improves robustness
and task success rates. To realize this, we proposed Behavior Judge (BJudge), a framework that
transforms dense trajectories into compact behavior narratives and leverages them for principled
trajectory selection. Together with an improved CUA baseline, our BJudge method establishes a
new state-of-the-art on OSWorld (72.6% success at 100 steps), surpassing prior work by a large
margin (+9.2%) and surpassing 72.36% human-level performance. Through extensive ablations, we
validated our design choices and demonstrated strong generalizability on WindowsAgentArena and
AndroidWorld, highlighting the promise of BJudge as a scalable and effective approach to improving
real-world CUAs.
REFERENCES
Saaket Agashe, Jiuzhou Han, Shuyu Gan, Jiachen Yang, Ang Li, and Xin Eric Wang. Agent s: An
open agentic framework that uses computers like a human. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2025a. URL https://openreview.net/forum?
id=lIVRgt4nLv.
Saaket Agashe, Kyle Wong, Vincent Tu, Jiachen Yang, Ang Li, and Xin Eric Wang.
Agent
s2: A compositional generalist-specialist framework for computer use agents. In Second Conference on Language Modeling, 2025b.
URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=
zg5is4GJ3R.
Anthropic. Claude-4, 2025. URL https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-4.
Rogerio Bonatti, Dan Zhao, Francesco Bonacci, Dillon Dupont, Sara Abdali, Yinheng Li, Yadong
Lu, Justin Wagle, Kazuhito Koishida, Arthur Bucker, Lawrence Keunho Jang, and Zheng Hui.
Windows agent arena: Evaluating multi-modal OS agents at scale. In Forty-second International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=
W9s817KqYf.
Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Jared
Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman, Alex Ray, Raul Puri,
Gretchen Krueger, Michael Petrov, Heidy Khlaaf, Girish Sastry, Pamela Mishkin, Brooke Chan,
Scott Gray, Nick Ryder, Mikhail Pavlov, Alethea Power, Lukasz Kaiser, Mohammad Bavarian,
Clemens Winter, Philippe Tillet, Felipe Petroski Such, Dave Cummings, Matthias Plappert, Fotios Chantzis, Elizabeth Barnes, Ariel Herbert-Voss, William Hebgen Guss, Alex Nichol, Alex
Paino, Nikolas Tezak, Jie Tang, Igor Babuschkin, Suchir Balaji, Shantanu Jain, William Saunders,
Christopher Hesse, Andrew N. Carr, Jan Leike, Josh Achiam, Vedant Misra, Evan Morikawa, Alec
Radford, Matthew Knight, Miles Brundage, Mira Murati, Katie Mayer, Peter Welinder, Bob McGrew, Dario Amodei, Sam McCandlish, Ilya Sutskever, and Wojciech Zaremba. Evaluating large
language models trained on code, 2021. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.03374.
Xiang Deng, Yu Gu, Boyuan Zheng, Shijie Chen, Samual Stevens, Boshi Wang, Huan Sun,
and Yu Su. Mind2web: Towards a generalist agent for the web. In Alice Oh, Tristan Naumann, Amir Globerson, Kate Saenko, Moritz Hardt, and Sergey Levine (eds.), Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems 36:
Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2023, NeurIPS 2023, New Orleans, LA, USA, December 10 -
16, 2023, 2023.
URL http://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/
hash/5950bf290a1570ea401bf98882128160-Abstract-Datasets_and_
Benchmarks.html.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Boyu Gou, Zanming Huang, Yuting Ning, Yu Gu, Michael Lin, Weijian Qi, Andrei Kopanev,
Botao Yu, Bernal Jim´enez Guti´errez, Yiheng Shu, Chan Hee Song, Jiaman Wu, Shijie Chen,
Hanane Nour Moussa, Tianshu Zhang, Jian Xie, Yifei Li, Tianci Xue, Zeyi Liao, Kai Zhang,
Boyuan Zheng, Zhaowei Cai, Viktor Rozgic, Morteza Ziyadi, Huan Sun, and Yu Su. Mind2web
2: Evaluating agentic search with agent-as-a-judge. CoRR, abs/2506.21506, 2025. doi: 10.48550/
ARXIV.2506.21506. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2506.21506.
Zhangxuan Gu, Zhengwen Zeng, Zhenyu Xu, Xingran Zhou, Shuheng Shen, Yunfei Liu, Beitong
Zhou, Changhua Meng, Tianyu Xia, Weizhi Chen, Yue Wen, Jingya Dou, Fei Tang, Jinzhen Lin,
Yulin Liu, Zhenlin Guo, Yichen Gong, Heng Jia, Changlong Gao, Yuan Guo, Yong Deng, Zhenyu
Guo, Liang Chen, and Weiqiang Wang. Ui-venus technical report: Building high-performance
UI agents with RFT. CoRR, abs/2508.10833, 2025. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2508.10833. URL
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2508.10833.
Dong Guo, Faming Wu, Feida Zhu, Fuxing Leng, Guang Shi, Haobin Chen, Haoqi Fan, Jian Wang,
Jianyu Jiang, Jiawei Wang, Jingji Chen, Jingjia Huang, Kang Lei, Liping Yuan, Lishu Luo,
Pengfei Liu, Qinghao Ye, Rui Qian, Shen Yan, Shixiong Zhao, Shuai Peng, Shuangye Li, Sihang Yuan, Sijin Wu, Tianheng Cheng, Weiwei Liu, Wenqian Wang, Xianhan Zeng, Xiao Liu,
Xiaobo Qin, Xiaohan Ding, Xiaojun Xiao, Xiaoying Zhang, Xuanwei Zhang, Xuehan Xiong,
Yanghua Peng, Yangrui Chen, Yanwei Li, Yanxu Hu, Yi Lin, Yiyuan Hu, Yiyuan Zhang, Youbin
Wu, Yu Li, Yudong Liu, Yue Ling, Yujia Qin, Zanbo Wang, Zhiwu He, Aoxue Zhang, Bairen Yi,
Bencheng Liao, Can Huang, Can Zhang, Chaorui Deng, Chaoyi Deng, Cheng Lin, Cheng Yuan,
Chenggang Li, Chenhui Gou, Chenwei Lou, Chengzhi Wei, Chundian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Deyao
Zhu, Donghong Zhong, Feng Li, Feng Zhang, Gang Wu, Guodong Li, Guohong Xiao, Haibin
Lin, Haihua Yang, Haoming Wang, Heng Ji, Hongxiang Hao, Hui Shen, Huixia Li, Jiahao Li,
Jialong Wu, Jianhua Zhu, Jianpeng Jiao, Jiashi Feng, Jiaze Chen, Jianhui Duan, Jihao Liu, Jin
Zeng, Jingqun Tang, Jingyu Sun, Joya Chen, Jun Long, Junda Feng, Junfeng Zhan, Junjie Fang,
Junting Lu, Kai Hua, Kai Liu, Kai Shen, Kaiyuan Zhang, Ke Shen, Ke Wang, Keyu Pan, Kun
Zhang, Kunchang Li, Lanxin Li, Lei Li, Lei Shi, Li Han, Liang Xiang, Liangqiang Chen, Lin
Chen, Lin Li, Lin Yan, Liying Chi, Longxiang Liu, Mengfei Du, Mingxuan Wang, Ningxin Pan,
Peibin Chen, Pengfei Chen, Pengfei Wu, Qingqing Yuan, Qingyao Shuai, Qiuyan Tao, Renjie
Zheng, Renrui Zhang, Ru Zhang, Rui Wang, Rui Yang, Rui Zhao, Shaoqiang Xu, Shihao Liang,
Shipeng Yan, Shu Zhong, Shuaishuai Cao, Shuangzhi Wu, Shufan Liu, Shuhan Chang, Songhua
Cai, Tenglong Ao, Tianhao Yang, Tingting Zhang, Wanjun Zhong, Wei Jia, Wei Weng, Weihao
Yu, Wenhao Huang, Wenjia Zhu, Wenli Yang, Wenzhi Wang, Xiang Long, XiangRui Yin, Xiao
Li, Xiaolei Zhu, Xiaoying Jia, Xijin Zhang, Xin Liu, Xinchen Zhang, Xinyu Yang, Xiongcai Luo,
Xiuli Chen, Xuantong Zhong, Xuefeng Xiao, Xujing Li, Yan Wu, Yawei Wen, Yifan Du, Yihao
Zhang, Yining Ye, Yonghui Wu, Yu Liu, Yu Yue, Yufeng Zhou, Yufeng Yuan, Yuhang Xu, Yuhong
Yang, Yun Zhang, Yunhao Fang, Yuntao Li, Yurui Ren, Yuwen Xiong, Zehua Hong, Zehua Wang,
Zewei Sun, Zeyu Wang, Zhao Cai, Zhaoyue Zha, Zhecheng An, Zhehui Zhao, Zhengzhuo Xu,
Zhipeng Chen, Zhiyong Wu, Zhuofan Zheng, Zihao Wang, Zilong Huang, Ziyu Zhu, and Zuquan
Song. Seed1.5-vl technical report, 2025a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.07062.
Liangxuan Guo, Bin Zhu, Qingqian Tao, Kangning Liu, Xun Zhao, Xianzhe Qin, Jin Gao, and
Guangfu Hao. Agentic lybic: Multi-agent execution system with tiered reasoning and orchestration, 2025b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.11067.
Hongliang He, Wenlin Yao, Kaixin Ma, Wenhao Yu, Yong Dai, Hongming Zhang, Zhenzhong Lan,
and Dong Yu. Webvoyager: Building an end-to-end web agent with large multimodal models.
In Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins, and Vivek Srikumar (eds.), Proceedings of the 62nd Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), ACL 2024,
Bangkok, Thailand, August 11-16, 2024, pp. 6864–6890. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2024. doi: 10.18653/V1/2024.ACL-LONG.371. URL https://doi.org/10.18653/
v1/2024.acl-long.371.
Arnav Kumar Jain, Gonzalo Gonzalez-Pumariega, Wayne Chen, Alexander M Rush, Wenting Zhao,
and Sanjiban Choudhury.
Multi-turn code generation through single-step rewards.
In Fortysecond International Conference on Machine Learning, 2025. URL https://openreview.
net/forum?id=aJeLhLcsh0.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Ning Li, Xiangmou Qu, Jiamu Zhou, Jun Wang, Muning Wen, Kounianhua Du, Xingyu Lou, Qiuying Peng, Jun Wang, and Weinan Zhang. Mobileuse: A gui agent with hierarchical reflection for
autonomous mobile operation, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.16853.
Hunter Lightman, Vineet Kosaraju, Yuri Burda, Harrison Edwards, Bowen Baker, Teddy Lee, Jan
Leike, John Schulman, Ilya Sutskever, and Karl Cobbe. Let’s verify step by step. In The Twelfth
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024. URL https://openreview.
net/forum?id=v8L0pN6EOi.
OpenAI.
Introducing
o3
and
o4-mini.
https://openai.com/index/
introducing-o3-and-o4-mini/, 2024.
Christopher Rawles, Sarah Clinckemaillie, Yifan Chang, Jonathan Waltz, Gabrielle Lau, Marybeth
Fair, Alice Li, William E. Bishop, Wei Li, Folawiyo Campbell-Ajala, Daniel Kenji Toyama,
Robert James Berry, Divya Tyamagundlu, Timothy P. Lillicrap, and Oriana Riva. Androidworld:
A dynamic benchmarking environment for autonomous agents. In The Thirteenth International
Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2025, Singapore, April 24-28, 2025. OpenReview.net, 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=il5yUQsrjC.
ByteDance Seed. Ui-tars-1.5. https://seed-tars.com/1.5, 2025.
Charlie Victor Snell, Jaehoon Lee, Kelvin Xu, and Aviral Kumar. Scaling LLM test-time compute
optimally can be more effective than scaling parameters for reasoning. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2025. URL https://openreview.net/
forum?id=4FWAwZtd2n.
Linxin Song, Yutong Dai, Viraj Prabhu, Jieyu Zhang, Taiwei Shi, Li Li, Junnan Li, Silvio Savarese,
Zeyuan Chen, Jieyu Zhao, Ran Xu, and Caiming Xiong. Coact-1: Computer-using agents with
coding as actions, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.03923.
Haoming Wang, Haoyang Zou, Huatong Song, Jiazhan Feng, Junjie Fang, Junting Lu, Longxiang
Liu, Qinyu Luo, Shihao Liang, Shijue Huang, Wanjun Zhong, Yining Ye, Yujia Qin, Yuwen
Xiong, Yuxin Song, Zhiyong Wu, Aoyan Li, Bo Li, Chen Dun, Chong Liu, Daoguang Zan,
Fuxing Leng, Hanbin Wang, Hao Yu, Haobin Chen, Hongyi Guo, Jing Su, Jingjia Huang, Kai
Shen, Kaiyu Shi, Lin Yan, Peiyao Zhao, Pengfei Liu, Qinghao Ye, Renjie Zheng, Shulin Xin,
Wayne Xin Zhao, Wen Heng, Wenhao Huang, Wenqian Wang, Xiaobo Qin, Yi Lin, Youbin Wu,
Zehui Chen, Zihao Wang, Baoquan Zhong, Xinchun Zhang, Xujing Li, Yuanfan Li, Zhongkai
Zhao, Chengquan Jiang, Faming Wu, Haotian Zhou, Jinlin Pang, Li Han, Qi Liu, Qianli Ma,
Siyao Liu, Songhua Cai, Wenqi Fu, Xin Liu, Yaohui Wang, Zhi Zhang, Bo Zhou, Guoliang Li,
Jiajun Shi, Jiale Yang, Jie Tang, Li Li, Qihua Han, Taoran Lu, Woyu Lin, Xiaokang Tong, Xinyao
Li, Yichi Zhang, Yu Miao, Zhengxuan Jiang, Zili Li, Ziyuan Zhao, Chenxin Li, Dehua Ma, Feng
Lin, Ge Zhang, Haihua Yang, Hangyu Guo, Hongda Zhu, Jiaheng Liu, Junda Du, Kai Cai, Kuanye
Li, Lichen Yuan, Meilan Han, Minchao Wang, Shuyue Guo, Tianhao Cheng, Xiaobo Ma, Xiaojun
Xiao, Xiaolong Huang, Xinjie Chen, Yidi Du, Yilin Chen, Yiwen Wang, Zhaojian Li, Zhenzhu
Yang, Zhiyuan Zeng, Chaolin Jin, Chen Li, Hao Chen, Haoli Chen, Jian Chen, Qinghao Zhao,
and Guang Shi. Ui-tars-2 technical report: Advancing gui agent with multi-turn reinforcement
learning, 2025a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.02544.
Xinyuan Wang, Bowen Wang, Dunjie Lu, Junlin Yang, Tianbao Xie, Junli Wang, Jiaqi Deng, Xiaole Guo, Yiheng Xu, Chen Henry Wu, Zhennan Shen, Zhuokai Li, Ryan Li, Xiaochuan Li,
Junda Chen, Boyuan Zheng, Peihang Li, Fangyu Lei, Ruisheng Cao, Yeqiao Fu, Dongchan Shin,
Martin Shin, Jiarui Hu, Yuyan Wang, Jixuan Chen, Yuxiao Ye, Danyang Zhang, Dikang Du, Hao
Hu, Huarong Chen, Zaida Zhou, Haotian Yao, Ziwei Chen, Qizheng Gu, Yipu Wang, Heng Wang,
Diyi Yang, Victor Zhong, Flood Sung, Y. Charles, Zhilin Yang, and Tao Yu. Opencua: Open foundations for computer-use agents, 2025b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.09123.
Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran Wu, Beibin Li, Erkang Zhu, Li Jiang, Xiaoyun
Zhang, Shaokun Zhang, Jiale Liu, Ahmed Hassan Awadallah, Ryen W White, Doug Burger, and
Chi Wang. Autogen: Enabling next-gen LLM applications via multi-agent conversations. In First
Conference on Language Modeling, 2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=
BAakY1hNKS.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Tianbao Xie and Danyang Zhang et al.
Osworld: Benchmarking multimodal agents for openended tasks in real computer environments. GitHub Pages, 2024. URL https://os-world.
github.io/.
Tianbao Xie, Danyang Zhang, Jixuan Chen, Xiaochuan Li, Siheng Zhao, Ruisheng Cao, Toh Jing
Hua, Zhoujun Cheng, Dongchan Shin, Fangyu Lei, Yitao Liu, Yiheng Xu, Shuyan Zhou, Silvio
Savarese, Caiming Xiong, Victor Zhong, and Tao Yu.
Osworld: Benchmarking multimodal
agents for open-ended tasks in real computer environments.
In Amir Globersons, Lester
Mackey, Danielle Belgrave, Angela Fan, Ulrich Paquet, Jakub M. Tomczak, and Cheng Zhang
(eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 38: Annual Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems 2024, NeurIPS 2024, Vancouver, BC, Canada, December 10
- 15, 2024, 2024.
URL http://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/
hash/5d413e48f84dc61244b6be550f1cd8f5-Abstract-Datasets_and_
Benchmarks_Track.html.
Tianbao Xie, Jiaqi Deng, Xiaochuan Li, Junlin Yang, Haoyuan Wu, Jixuan Chen, Wenjing Hu,
Xinyuan Wang, Yuhui Xu, Zekun Wang, Yiheng Xu, Junli Wang, Doyen Sahoo, Tao Yu, and
Caiming Xiong. Scaling computer-use grounding via user interface decomposition and synthesis,
2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13227.
Yiheng Xu, Zekun Wang, Junli Wang, Dunjie Lu, Tianbao Xie, Amrita Saha, Doyen Sahoo, Tao
Yu, and Caiming Xiong.
Aguvis: Unified pure vision agents for autonomous GUI interaction.
In Forty-second International Conference on Machine Learning, 2025.
URL https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=PlihOwfx4r.
Tianci Xue, Weijian Qi, Tianneng Shi, Chan Hee Song, Boyu Gou, Dawn Song, Huan Sun, and
Yu Su. An illusion of progress? assessing the current state of web agents. In Second Conference on
Language Modeling, 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=6jZi4HSs6o.
Jingqi Yang, Zhilong Song, Jiawei Chen, Mingli Song, Sheng Zhou, linjun sun, Xiaogang Ouyang,
Chun Chen, and Can Wang. Gui-robust: A comprehensive dataset for testing gui agent robustness
in real-world anomalies, 2025a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14477.
Yan Yang, Dongxu Li, Yutong Dai, Yuhao Yang, Ziyang Luo, Zirui Zhao, Zhiyuan Hu, Junzhe
Huang, Amrita Saha, Zeyuan Chen, Ran Xu, Liyuan Pan, Silvio Savarese, Caiming Xiong, and
Junnan Li. Gta1: Gui test-time scaling agent, 2025b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2507.05791.
King Zhu, Hanhao Li, Siwei Wu, Tianshun Xing, Dehua Ma, Xiangru Tang, Minghao Liu,
Jian Yang, Jiaheng Liu, Yuchen Eleanor Jiang, Changwang Zhang, Chenghua Lin, Jun Wang,
Ge Zhang, and Wangchunshu Zhou.
Scaling test-time compute for llm agents, 2025.
URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.12928.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
APPENDIX
A
USE OF LLMS
We used chatgpt.com to generate structured sentences as placeholders then paraphrased in our own
words. We also used chatgpt.com to create placeholder matplotlib figures and manually filled in
experiment results.
B
SUMMARY OF COSTS, TIME, AND TOTAL EXPERIMENT TIME
We present the rollout collection details and timing using gpt-5-2025-08-07 below.
Per task
Single Rollout
BN Gen
Judging (N=10)
Average cost ($)
0.72
0.11
0.03
Average time (sec)
433.4
Median time (sec)
265.3
53.7
Table 8: Average and median cost/time per task for each module. Median time is included due to
right-skew from API delays; these values are reported in the Appendix.
We collect agent trajectories by running OSWorld on AWS, where a host instance (e.g., a
c4.8xlarge) contains the OSWorld code and the script for running Agent S3. The OSWorld
framework spawns a user-specified number of EC2 instances, each executing an OSWorld task.
More details about running OSWorld on AWS can be found in their public repository.
A c4.8xlarge EC2 host instance can support 40 parallel OSWorld-spawned instances. We run
10 rollouts over the 361-task OSWorld benchmark in parallel using four c4.8xlarge hosts for a
total of 15 hours and 54 minutes.
Behavior Narrative Generation and comparative judging were executed locally using the OpenAI
API with gpt-5-2025-08-07 and 100 workers.
The Behavior Narrative Generator required approximately 1 hour and 19 minutes to process all 10
rollouts across the 361 tasks. Although latency could be reduced by generating facts on-the-fly, we
chose to run this step after rollouts to better isolate and monitor each module. Comparative judging
required approximately 20 minutes for the 361 tasks and was performed after generating all behavior
narratives.
In total, running Agent S3 with BJudge (N=10) required 17 hours and 33 minutes to fully complete.
C
EFFICIENCY CONSIDERATIONS
This section provides additional discussion and empirical results related to improving the efficiency
of our proposed learning paradigm. While the primary focus of the main paper is on advancing the
performance of computer-use agents, it is important to consider how to keep costs low to make it
practical to deploy in the real-world.
C.1
ENSEMBLING CHEAP AND EXPENSIVE MODELS
We explore the performance of differing mixture-of-model ensembles in Table 5 and find that increasing model diversity in the ensemble boosts performance. Another reason for our study is to
investigate whether we can mix weaker cheaper models with stronger expensive models to achieve
a sizable performance improvement with less cost. We share results in Table 9, suggesting that a
balance can be struck between cost and performance.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
Ensemble
Performance
GPT-5 (N=4)
66.5
GPT-5 (N=2) & GPT-5 Mini (N=2)
64.9
GPT-5 Mini (N=4)
57.0
Table 9: Performance of ensembles composed of models with varying capacities.
C.2
CHEAP ROLLOUTS AND EXPENSIVE BJUDGE
One finding in Appendix B is that the BJudge modules cost is about 5 times cheaper than rolling
out trajectories. This led us to investigate the use of open-source models, specifically Qwen3-VL30B-A3B-Thinking, and a combination of open and closed source models for Behavior Narrative
Generation and Behavior Comparative Evaluation. Using our Agent S3 framework, we conducted
10 OSWorld runs with the open-source model, achieving an average success rate of 33.3%. Table 10
presents results for different combinations of models used for Behavior Narrative Generation and
Behavior Comparative Evaluation.
Narrative Gen.
Comparative Eval
Performance
None
None
33.3%
Qwen3
Qwen3
40.9%
GPT-5
Qwen3
44.7%
Qwen3
GPT-5
49.4%
GPT-5
GPT-5
51.5%
Table 10: Performance using different model combinations for Behavior Narrative Generation and
Comparative Behavior Evaluation.
We find that re-using Qwen3-VL-30B-A3B-Thinking for Behavior Narrative Generation and Behavior Comparative Evaluation leads to a performance improvement of +7.6% while using GPT-5
for both results in an 18.2% improvement.
D
AGENTIC FRAMEWORK IMPROVEMENTS
This appendix expands on Section 3.3 by specifying interfaces and execution details omitted from
the main text. We focus on concrete I/O, termination, and logging conventions.
Coding Agent Interface & Execution
At outer step t, a code action launches a bounded inner
loop with budget B. At inner step k ∈{1, . . . , B} the coding agent conditions on
ccode
k
=
 I, ot, F1:k−1

,
where I is the task instruction, ot the current GUI observation (screenshot), and F1:k−1 aggregates
execution feedback from prior inner steps (see §3.3 for the high-level loop). Each feedback item is
a structured tuple
Fk =
 statusk, return codek, stdoutk, stderrk

,
capturing terminal signals from running the previous program in a sandboxed VM via the environment controller.
The agent either (i) writes executable Python/Bash code and yields a new
Fk appended to the context, or (ii) returns a control token DONE/FAIL. The loop terminates on
DONE/FAIL or when k = B.
Summarization & Hand-off Upon termination, a summarizer produces a brief description st of the
session (intent/logic and observed effects) and a concise, verifiable inspection checklist (e.g., “open
report.csv and verify 12 new rows”; “check toast ‘Saved’”). The environment returns to the
GUI worker: (i) the post-execution observation ot+1 and (ii) a context block containing the task/-
subtask instruction, steps executed and budget, the completion reason, the summary st, and the
complete execution history (all generated code blocks with corresponding terminal outputs). The

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
worker appends this block to ht+1 and uses it to verify on-screen effects before resuming step-bystep planning. This validation consumes environment steps
Flat (Single-Level) Planning.
As detailed in Section 3.3, we remove hierarchical planning and
use a single step-level policy π(at | I, ot, ht) that can replan at any step. Here we record only the
operational constraint: the policy does not commit to a subgoal list; instead, it updates plans online
based on current observation and compact history, enabling immediate course corrections while
minimizing orchestration overhead. Empirical effects on success and efficiency appear in Table 2.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
E
ITERATIVE VS. MCQ-STYLE COMPARISON
Given n candidate trajectories, we compare two judge strategies. MCQ (one-shot) asks the judge
to select the best trajectory from all n at once. This incurs a single judge call (time O(1)) with input
proportional to n (token cost ∝n). Iterative (pairwise) runs a tournament: compare ˜τ (1) with
˜τ (2), then compare the winner with ˜τ (3), and so on, requiring n−1 matches (time O(n)). If each
comparison consumes two trajectory inputs, the total token cost is 2(n−1).
Method
Time (judge calls)
Token cost
MCQ (one-shot)
O(1)
n
Iterative (pairwise)
O(n)
2(n −1)
Table 11: Complexity for selecting the best of n trajectories via a single multiple-choice (MCQ)
prompt vs. iterative pairwise comparisons. Token costs shown up to proportionality; constants omitted for clarity.
Table 12 shows that single-round MCQ comparative evaluation performs similarly to iterative pairwise comparison from two to five rollouts. Based on our results, we opted for MCQ-style comparison because it preserves performance while being faster and more token-efficient.
Method
N=2
N=3
N=4
N=5
BJudge w/ Iterative Comparison
62.78
63.59
63.68
66.00
BJudge w/ MCQ-style
64.73
66.12
68.04
66.86
Table 12: Success rate (%) on OSWorld. N is the number of rollouts used.
F
CITING VS. NOT CITING BEHAVIOR NARRATIVES
Method
Model
100-step
BJudge (no citing)
GPT-5 Mini
59.1
BJudge (w/ citing)
GPT-5 Mini
60.2
BJudge (no citing)
GPT-5
69.0
BJudge (w/ citing)
GPT-5
69.9
Table 13: Comparison of BJudge with and without citing behavior narratives. We evaluate with
N=10 rollouts.
The judge accepts behavior narratives as part of its input for reasoning about which trajectory to select. We tested the usefulness of requiring the judge to cite these behavior narratives in its reasoning
process. With GPT-5 as the BJudge judge, we tested our method with and without citing for N=10
GPT-5 rollouts and N=10 GPT-5 Mini rollouts (denoted by the model column). We found marginal
performance improvements (about 1%) in our GPT-5 and GPT-5 mini settings.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
G
CASE STUDIES
Figure 6: Task Instruction: ”Could you assist me in enhancing the color vibrancy of my photo?”
In this case, the VLM struggles to recognize the negative sign −17.0 in the image and generates an
inaccurate behavior narrative stating action changed vibrancy to 17.0.
Figure 7: Task instruction: Please hide rows containing ”N/A”. (Left) In Run A, the GUI agent fails
to verify the coding agents changes, concludes the coding agent failed and proceeds to attempt the
task via GUI actions. (Right) In Run B, the GUI agent successfully verifies the code agent’s changes
and marks the task as complete. The BJudge judge incorrectly picks Run A as it is biased by the
reasonable-sounding behavior narratives. This case underlines the importance of the interaction
between the GUI and code agent.
H
SYSTEM PROMPTS
Listing 1: Behavior Comparative Evaluator system prompt.
You are a meticulous and impartial evaluator, tasked with judging <NUMBER
OF TRAJECTORIES> sequences of OS desktop actions to determine which
one better completes the user's request. Your evaluation must be
strict, detailed, and adhere to the provided criteria.
**User Request:**
<TASK_DESCRIPTION_INPUT>
**Judge Guidelines:**

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
These guidelines are to help you evaluate both sequences of actions.
These are strict guidelines and should not be deviated from.
While judging:
Be thorough when aligning the agent's actions with the key constraints
and following expected agent behaviors (if relevant).
The agent is always expected to complete the task; key constraints take
precedence over these guidelines which act as tie breakers.
Always double-check the agent's calculations for accuracy.
Explicitly state which rows and columns must be selected.
Always verify that exact values match the user's request.
Pay particular attention that spreadsheet modifications do not deviate
from the original user's formatting, layout, and ordering unless
absolutely necessary.
Expected agent behaviors:
The agent must map the user's request to the software's built-in features
, not hacky methods.
The agent must return control with a clean desktop, closing any popups,
tabs, toolbars, search bars, or other elements it opened that weren't
originally there even if they are unobtrusive.
The agent must maintain the original format of the user's spreadsheet as
closely as possible.
The agent must preserve the spreadsheet's layout, formatting, and row/
column order, making changes only within existing cells without
creating gaps or adding new columns unless required for essential
changes.
The agent must close the settings tab on Chrome for changes to take
effect.
The agent must prioritize the safest options whenever the user expresses
safety concerns.
The agent must fully complete user requests, following flows to the end
to save the user time.
The agent must fulfill the user's request on the website where the
request originates, using other sites only if absolutely necessary.
The agent must apply all relevant filters to fully satisfy the user's
request. It is insufficient to miss relevant filters even if the
items are still present in the final state.
**Reasoning Structure:**
1. **Evaluate both sequences of actions against relevant judge guidelines
.** Explicitly list EACH AND EVERY judge guidelines, whether they
apply, and, if so, verify that they were met, partially met, or not
met at all for both sequences.
2. **Reason about the differences between the two sequences.** Consider
which sequence better meets the judge guidelines. If they both meet
the guidelines equally, consider which sequence is more efficient,
effective, or cleaner.
3. **Provide a brief justification for your decision, highlighting which
judge guidelines were met and which were missed.**
**Reasoning Guidelines:**
- You will be provided <NUMBER OF TRAJECTORIES> results, each result
contains all screenshots in chronological order.
- You **must** refer to the sequence of screenshots to understand what
has changed throughout the trajectory. These screenshots show the
complete progression; **Do not assume what has changed or likely
changed.**
- You can cite screenshots during reasoning, e.g., Screenshot 2,
Screenshots 1-2, but **must** refer to the actual screenshot sequence
for accurate changes.
- You **must** explicitly write out all justifications
- You **must** enclose all reasoning in <thoughts> tags and the final
answer in <answer> tags

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
- The user prefers that the agent communicates when it is impossible to
proceed rather than attempting to complete the task incorrectly.
- If at least one trajectory is deemed impossible to proceed, it should
be chosen if the other trajectory doesn't satisfy the request either.
- You **must** explicitly state when either trajectory was deemed
impossible to proceed.
- You **must** explicitly write out all reasoning and justifications
Which sequence of actions better completes the user request OR correctly
notes the request is impossible? Please provide your evaluation in
the following format:
<thoughts>
[Your reasoning doing a comprehensive comparison of the two sequences,
strictly following the structure in Reasoning Structure, adhering to
the Reasoning Guidelines, and using the Reasoning Format.]
</thoughts>
<answer>
[The index of the better sequence, a single integer from 1 to <NUMBER OF
TRAJECTORIES>]
</answer>
Listing 2: GUI policy system prompt.
You are an expert in graphical user interfaces and Python code. You are
responsible for executing the task: `TASK_DESCRIPTION`.
You are working in CURRENT_OS.
# GUIDELINES
## Agent Usage Guidelines
You have access to both GUI and code agents. Choose the appropriate agent
based on the task requirements:
### GUI Agent
- **Use for**: clicking, typing, navigation, file operations, tasks
requiring specific application features, visual elements, interactive
features, application UI, complex formatting, print/export settings,
multi-step workflows, pivot tables, charts
### Code Agent
You have access to a code agent that can execute Python/Bash code for
complex tasks.
**Usage Strategy**:
- **Full Task**: Use `agent.call_code_agent()` when the task involves ANY
data manipulation, calculations, or bulk operations
- **Subtask**: Use `agent.call_code_agent(``specific subtask'')` for
focused data tasks
- **CRITICAL**: If calling the code agent for the full task, pass the
original task instruction without rewording or modification
### Code Agent Result Interpretation
- The code agent runs Python/Bash code in the background (up to 20 steps)
, independently performing tasks like file modification, package
installation, or system operations.
- After execution, you receive a report with:
* Steps completed (actual steps run)
* Max steps (step budget)
* Completion reason: DONE (success), FAIL (gave up), or
BUDGET_EXHAUSTED (used all steps)
* Summary of work done
* Full execution history
- Interpretation:
* DONE: The code agent finished before using all steps, believing the
task was completed through code.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
* FAIL: The code agent determined the task could not be completed by
code and failed after trying.
* BUDGET_EXHAUSTED: The task required more steps than allowed by the
step budget.
### Code Agent Verification
- After the code agent modifies files, your job is to find and verify
these files via GUI actions (e.g., opening or inspecting them in the
relevant apps); the code agent only handles file content and scripts.
- ALWAYS verify code agent results with GUI actions before using agent.
done(); NEVER trust code agent output alone. If verification or the
code agent fails, use GUI actions to finish the task and only use
agent.done() if results match expectations.
- **CRITICAL**: Files modified by code agent may not show changes in
currently open applications - you MUST close and reopen the entire
application. Reloading the page/file is insufficient.
Never assume a task is done based on appearances-always ensure the
specific requested action has been performed and verify the
modification. If you haven't executed any actions, the task is not
complete.
### END OF GUIDELINES
You are provided with:
1. A screenshot of the current time step.
2. The history of your previous interactions with the UI.
3. Access to the following class and methods to interact with the UI:
class Agent:
Listing 3: Code agent summarization system prompt.
You are a code execution summarizer. Your role is to provide clear,
factual summaries of code execution sessions.
Key responsibilities:
- Summarize the code logic and approach used at each step
- Describe the outputs and results produced by code execution
- Explain the progression of the solution approach
- Use neutral, objective language without making judgments about success
or failure
- Focus on what was attempted and what resulted
- Keep summaries concise and well-structured
CRITICAL: Include verification instructions for the GUI agent
- If files were modified, provide specific verification guidance:
* What files were changed and their expected final state
* What the GUI agent should look for when verifying (e.g., ``The file
should now contain X records with timestamps between 06:00-12:00'')
* How to verify the changes are correct
* Whether the task appears complete or if additional GUI actions are
needed
- This helps the GUI agent understand what to expect and verify your work
properly
Always maintain a factual, non-judgmental tone.
Listing 4: Code agent system prompt.
You are a code execution agent with a limited step budget to complete
tasks.
# Core Guidelines:
- Execute Python/Bash code step-by-step to progress toward the goal

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
- Use sudo with: ``echo osworld-public-evaluation | sudo -S [COMMANDS]''
- Username: ``user''
- Print results and handle errors appropriately
- Code execution may not show immediately on screen
# CRITICAL: Incremental Step-by-Step Approach
- Break down complex tasks into small, self-contained steps
- Each step should contain a single, focused code snippet that advances
toward the goal
- Code from each step does NOT persist to the next step - write complete,
standalone snippets
- Example workflow:
* Step 1: Write code to locate/find the target file
* Step 2: Write code to **THOROUGHLY** inspect/read the file contents
* Step 3: Write code to modify the file based on findings
* Step 4: Write code to verify the changes
- If verification fails (the modification did not work as intended),
return to Step 3 and rewrite the modification code. Repeat until
verification succeeds.
- Do NOT write entire scripts in one step - focus on one small task per
step
# CRITICAL: File Modification Strategy
- ALWAYS prioritize modifying existing open files IN PLACE rather than
creating new files
- The screenshot context shows which file is currently open and should be
modified
- For open documents (LibreOffice .docx/.xlsx, text editors, etc.),
modify the existing file directly
- Use appropriate libraries (python-docx, openpyxl, etc.) to modify files
in place
- CRITICAL: When modifying files, perform COMPLETE OVERWRITES, not
appends
- For documents: replace all paragraphs/sheets with new content
- For text files: write the complete new content, overwriting the old
- Only create new files when explicitly required by the task
- Verify your reasoning aligns with the user's intent for the open file
# CRITICAL: Thorough File Inspection Guidelines
- **ALWAYS inspect file contents AND data types before and after
modifications**
- Check cell values, formats, data types, number formats, decimal
separators, and formatting properties
- For spreadsheets: inspect cell values, number formats, date formats,
currency formats, and cell properties
- For documents: inspect text content, formatting, styles, and structural
elements
- Verify that modifications actually changed the intended properties (not
just values)
- Compare before/after states to ensure changes were applied correctly
# CRITICAL: Code-Based Task Solving
- You are responsible for writing EXECUTABLE CODE to solve the task
programmatically
- Write Python/Bash scripts that process, filter, transform, or
manipulate the data as required
# CRITICAL: Preserve Document Structure and Formatting
- When modifying documents/spreadsheets, PRESERVE the original structure,
headers, and formatting
- NEVER modify column headers, row headers, document titles, or sheet
names unless explicitly requested
- Maintain fonts, colors, borders, cell formatting, paragraph styles, etc
.
- Only change the content/data, not the structure or visual presentation

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
- Use libraries that support formatting preservation (python-docx,
openpyxl, etc.)
- The goal is to keep the document looking exactly the same, just with
different content
- **For column reordering**: Preserve table position - reorder columns
within the table without shifting the table itself
# CRITICAL: Final Step Requirement
- At the final step before completing the task (the step before you
return DONE), you MUST print out the contents of any files you
modified
- Use appropriate commands to display the final state of modified files:
* For text files: `cat filename` or `head -n 50 filename` for large
files
* For Python files: `cat filename.py`
* For configuration files: `cat filename.conf`
* For any other file type: use appropriate viewing commands
- This ensures the user can see exactly what changes were made to the
files
# CRITICAL: Verification Instructions
- When you complete a task that modifies files, you MUST provide clear
verification instructions
- Include specific details about what the GUI agent should check:
* Which files were modified and their expected final state
* What the content should look like (number of lines, key data points,
etc.)
* How to verify the changes are correct (e.g., ``Check that the file
now contains only records from 06:00-12:00'')
* Whether the task is complete or if additional GUI actions are needed
- Example verification instruction: ``The file has been filtered to show
only records from 06:00-12:00. The GUI agent should reopen the file
and verify it contains X records with timestamps in the specified
range.''
- This helps the GUI agent understand what to expect and how to verify
your work correctly
# Response Format:
You MUST respond using exactly this format:
<thoughts>
Your step-by-step reasoning about what needs to be done and how to
approach the current step.
</thoughts>
<answer>
Return EXACTLY ONE of the following options:
For Python code:
```python
your_python_code_here
'''
For Bash commands:
```bash
your_bash_commands_here
'''
For task completion:
DONE
For task failure:
FAIL
</answer>

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
# Technical Notes:
- Wrap code in ONE block, identify language (python/bash)
- Python code runs line-by-line in interactive terminal (no __main__)
- Install missing packages as needed
- Ignore ``sudo: /etc/sudoers.d is world writable'' error
- After in-place modifications, close/reopen files via GUI to show
changes
Focus on progress within your step budget.
Listing 5: Behavior Narrative Generator system prompt.
You are an expert in computer usage responsible for analyzing what
happened after a computer action is taken.
**Reasoning Guidelines:**
You will analyze the before and after screenshots given an action and
provide a clear summary of the changes observed. Some things to note:
- Pay attention to any circular visual markers that may suggest where
clicks, mouse movements, or drags occurred.
- Clicks will be marked with a red circle and labeled Click
- Moving the mouse without clicking will be marked with a blue circle
and labeled MoveTo
- Drag and drops will have an initial blue circle labeled MoveTo, a
green circle labeled DragTo, and a green line connecting the two
circles.
- If any mouse action occurred, the after screenshot will be accompanied
with a zoomed-in view of the area around the action to help you see
changes more clearly.
- This is intended to help with small details that are unclear in the
full screenshot so make sure to refer to it.
- The after screenshot will have a bounding box around the zoomed-in
area to help you locate it in the full screenshot.
- The zoomed-in view will be centered around the location of the mouse
action (for drags, it will be centered around the DragTo location).
- Focus on the changes that were induced by the action, rather than
irrelevant details (e.g. the time change in the system clock).
- The action will be represented as Pyautogui code which may include
more than one interaction so be sure to account for all changes (
since the after screenshot may not show all intermediate states).
- Note that even if the action is expected to cause a change, it may
have not. Never assume that the action was successful without clear
evidence in the screenshots.
- Do not rely on the coordinates of the action to determine what changed
; always refer to the visual marker as the true location of the
action.
- Your response will be used to caption the differences between before
and after screenshots so they must be extremely precise.
- Make sure to include the <thoughts>...</thoughts> and <answer>...</
answer> opening and closing tags for parsing or your entire response
will be invalidated.
Please format your response as follows below.
<thoughts>
[Your detailed reasoning about the before screenshot and any visual
markers, the action being taken, and the changes in the after
screenshot and zoomed-in view (if present).]
</thoughts>
<answer>
[An unordered list of the relevant changes induced by the action]
</answer>
Listing 6: Reflection system prompt.

Submitted to ICLR 2026 Workshop on Agents in the Wild. Do not distribute.
You are an expert computer use agent designed to reflect on the
trajectory of a task and provide feedback on what has happened so far
.
You have access to the Task Description and the Current Trajectory of
another computer agent. The Current Trajectory is a sequence of a
desktop image, chain-of-thought reasoning, and a desktop action for
each time step. The last image is the screen's display after the last
action.
IMPORTANT: The system includes a code agent that can modify files and
applications programmatically. When you see:
- Files with different content than expected
- Applications being closed and reopened
- Documents with fewer lines or modified content
These may be LEGITIMATE results of code agent execution, not errors or
corruption.
Your task is to generate a reflection. Your generated reflection must
fall under one of the cases listed below:
Case 1. The trajectory is not going according to plan. This is often due
to a cycle of actions being continually repeated with no progress
being made. In this case, explicitly highlight why the current
trajectory is incorrect, and encourage the computer agent to modify
their action. However, DO NOT encourage a specific action in
particular.
Case 2. The trajectory is going according to plan. In this case, simply
tell the agent to continue proceeding as planned. DO NOT encourage a
specific action in particular.
Case 3. You believe the current task has been completed. In this case,
tell the agent that the task has been successfully completed.
To be successful, you must follow the rules below:
- **Your output MUST be based on one of the case options above**.
- DO NOT suggest any specific future plans or actions. Your only goal is
to provide a reflection, not an actual plan or action.
- Any response that falls under Case 1 should explain why the trajectory
is not going according to plan. You should especially lookout for
cycles of actions that are continually repeated with no progress.
- Any response that falls under Case 2 should be concise, since you just
need to affirm the agent to continue with the current trajectory.
- IMPORTANT: Do not assume file modifications or application restarts are
errors - they may be legitimate code agent actions
- Consider whether observed changes align with the task requirements
before determining if the trajectory is off-track